Graduate Medical Education (GME) | OHSU Skip to main content Skip to main navigation OHSU Home Link to OHSU Home Graduate Medical Education Search icon Show search input Menu Enter keywords About GME Programs And Application Preparing To Start Employment and Benefits Events Resident and Faculty Wellness Housestaff Quality and Safety Council (HQSC) OHSU Home Find a Doctor MyChart Donate Jobs Directions Contact Background image: Collage of images of trainees and life in Portland Graduate Medical Education Graduate medical education is one of the central missions of Oregon Health & Science University. Experience OHSU and the wonders of Oregon The power of difference At Oregon Health & Science University School of Medicine, we aim to recruit, retain, and develop diverse resident physicians of the highest caliber. We believe that in order to deliver great health care, we must train culturally competent physicians from diverse backgrounds - including members of racial and ethnic groups that are historically under-represented in medicine, individuals raised in rural environments, and people who have overcome significant social and financial disadvantages. By weaving together a team of health care professionals that has a varied set of perspectives, values and experiences, we will create a welcoming environment that is inclusive and that fosters growth and innovation . We believe in the power of difference to fulfill our academic missions! Experience OHSU Graduate Medical Education, the wonders of Oregon, and something bigger. Resident Faculty Wellness Center OHSU offers confidential counseling specifically for residents, fellows and faculty. Learn more about the Resident Faculty Wellness Center services. Contact the Resident Faculty Wellness Center: 503 494-1208 Urgent consultation? Page 10975 Center for Diversity & Inclusion OHSU has a goal to be a great organization, diverse in people and ideas . View diversity and health resources SOM Diversity and Equity The OHSU School of Medicine is deeply committed to increasing and supporting diversity among our faculty, staff, and learners. Learn more... Incoming residents and fellows View important information for incoming residents and fellows. GME training programs All GME programs offered by OHSU are approved by the ACGME or other accrediting bodies or boards. See all GME training programs. Employment and benefits View OHSU employee benefits, salary information and more. How to apply View applicant qualifications, requirements, and download an application. O2 View information for current residents, fellows, program directors, and program coordinators on OHSU's intranet, O2. MedHub View OHSU's residency management system, MedHub ACGME The ACGME is the body that sets standards for US graduate medical education (residency and fellowship) programs and the institutions that sponsors them, and renders accreditation decisions based on compliance with these standards. View more information on the ACGME website . OHSU flame logo in white Oregon Health & Science University is dedicated to improving the health and quality of life for all Oregonians through excellence, innovation and leadership in health care, education and research. © 2001-2026 Oregon Health & Science University. OHSU is an equal opportunity affirmative action institution. Notice of Privacy Practices Notice of Nondiscrimination OHSU Home Contact Español Russian | Русский About OHSU Maps and Directions Jobs Make a Gift Website Accessibility Integrity Diversity and Inclusion Office of Civil Rights Investigations and Compliance Title IX Volunteer Patient Resources Billing and Insurance Find a Doctor Find a Clinic For Patients and Visitors Clinical Trials Price Transparency Research About Administration Centers and Institutes Cores and Shared Resources Library OHSU Innovates Research Expertise Academics School of Medicine School of Nursing School of Dentistry School of Public Health College of Pharmacy Admissions Student Services For Employees O2 Intranet Email Connecting Off-Campus OHSU Braille services OHSU sign language services OHSU interpreter services Inclusive Care and Access Connect with OHSU on social media Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram