Episcopal Health Services | St. John’s Episcopal Hospital Skip to Main Content Episcopal Health Services Contact Us Subscribe Community Events Donate Patient Portal About Services Find a Doctor Patients &#038; Visitors Education Careers Locations Pay My Bill The New Issue of EHS' Newsletter - Healthcare Within Reach - Is Here! Learn about new and enhanced service offerings, our Nurse Residency Program, new providers, facility improvements, recognitions and awards, and community happenings. Click here to read! The New EHS Cancer Center Is Now Open! Located in the Walsh Ambulatory Pavilion, this state-of-the-art facility offers medical and radiation oncology services in one convenient location. Click here to learn more! Book Your Appointment at the New Walsh Ambulatory Pavilion! This state-of-the-art facility brings together leading physicians, cutting-edge technology and a wide range of services in one convenient location. Click here to learn more! Low-Dose Radiation Therapy (LDRT): Innovative Pain Relief for Osteoarthritis Experience a nonsurgical approach to reduce joint inflammation and ease pain. FDA-approved LDRT is now available at EHS. Click to learn more or schedule a consultation EHS Primary and Specialty Care at Rockaway Beach EHS brings together a team of highly skilled specialists in one convenient location, offering a comprehensive range of outpatient specialties. Click here to learn more! Primary Care at EHS - Your Health, Our Commitment The EHS Primary Care team delivers compassionate, high-quality, person-centered care to individuals and families throughout our community. Click here to learn more! Why EHS for Stroke Care? EHS is committed to delivering timely, expert care for Stroke patients, utilizing advanced treatment options that improve patient outcomes Click here to learn more! Ambulatory (Outpatient) Services Primary Care Cancer Care Behavioral Health Primary Care Cancer Care Behavioral Health Women’s Health Orthopedics Emergency Medicine Imaging Physical Medicine &#038; Rehabilitation Wound Care Pediatrics View All Services News & Stories May is Skin Cancer Awareness Month: Dermatologist Shares Prevention and Detection Tips Read the Story EHS Opens Walsh Ambulatory Pavilion, Expanding Access to Advanced Outpatient Care Read the Story Community Newsletter – Volume 6 Read the Story Episcopal Health Services Names New Medical Director of Ambulatory Services Read the Story Episcopal Health Services Offers Low-Dose Radiotherapy to Treat Osteoarthritis Read the Story Episcopal Health Services Appoints New Chair and Residency Director of the Department of Medicine Read the Story International Women’s Day Q&A Read the Story March Is Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month: Gastroenterologist Shares Prevention Tips Read the Story Episcopal Health Services Celebrates Opening of New Cancer Center Read the Story February Is American Heart Health Month: Cardiologist Shares Prevention Tips for Heart Disease Read the Story Improving Our Community, One patient at a time. Over 110 Years of Community Care EHS teams are elevating the patient experience, driving innovation and upholding standards of excellence, so patients can rely on safety and improved outcomes. Learn more about our awards and recognition! Teaching Hospital with 180 Residents Annually 1905 Hospital Opened 9,491 In Patient Visits in 2024 47,652 ER Visits in 2024 93,584 Ambulatory Visits in 2024 The St. John’s ICARE Foundation fosters a culture of philanthropy to secure, manage and distribute gifts in support of the mission and vision of Episcopal Health Services/St. John’s Episcopal Hospital. Give Now 718-869-7000 327 Beach 19th St, Far Rockaway, NY 11691 About Episcopal Health Services About Us Contact Us COVID-19 Resources Newsletter Sign-Up Volunteer EHS Shop Careers Working for EHS Job Postings For Employees Employee Portal Employee Health & Wellness Download Horizon Client For Patients Price Transparency Community Health Events Medical Encyclopedia Compliance & Patient Privacy Medical Records Request Notice of Nondiscrimination and Accessibility Cookie Preferences