Observer Training Program (Not accepting applications) | IMP | School of Medicine and Health Sciences Skip to main content Give to IMP Quick Links Quick Links Administrative Offices Continuing Education in the Health Professions Departments & Programs GW Resiliency and Well-Being Center GWish GW Faculty Directory Himmelfarb Library Office of International Medicine Programs Toggle navigation Main navigation About Programs & Services Overview GW International MD Program for International Students Clinical Electives Medical Research Fellowship International Sponsored Residency Program International Sponsored Fellowship Program News & Events Latest News News Archive Alumni Support Search Search Home Observer Training Program (Not accepting applications) Observer Training Program (Not accepting applications) Introduction The Observer Training program is designed for all international medical graduates who wish to update their clinical and educational skills in a particular specialty. Each observer will be matched with a faculty member who will serve as their mentor during their observer training at The GW School of Medicine and Health Sciences (SMHS). This program will allow important relationships to develop between SMHS and the sponsoring institution or agency. We believe that an important goal of international collaborations is to exchange knowledge and develop and maintain relationships with colleagues from around the world. Goals The goal of this program is to provide a strong clinical experience, as well as a basic overview of the American medical system as it is carried out at SMHS. Observers can expect to participate, with their American colleagues, in the work of a medical school that enjoys an outstanding international reputation for interdisciplinary coordination of education, research, diagnosis and treatment. Please submit all required documents in one PDF document to impinfo [at] gwu [dot] edu (impinfo[at]gwu[dot]edu) . Use the program name to which you are applying as the heading in the subject of the email. Applications cannot be processed until all required documents are submitted. Click here for a full program description and admissions requirements. **Please note IMP is no longer accepting applications for the Observer Training Program. Main navigation Overview GW Global Health Scholarly Concentration International Non-Clinical Summer Experience International Non-Clinical Summer Experience Checklist International Clinical Electives Clinical Rotations Medical and Surgical Missions ICEP Guidelines Leonard C. Akman, MD &#039;43 Scholarship International MD Program for International Students Clinical Electives Clinical Rotations Medical Research Fellowship International Sponsored Residency Program International Sponsored Fellowship Program Social Links Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn RSS Feeds Ross Hall, 2300 Eye Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20037 smhsnews [at] gwu [dot] edu (smhsnews[at]gwu[dot]edu) Departments Departments A-Z Institutes Research Centers & Institutes A-Z Resources Campus Advisories Emergency Preparedness Non-Discrimination Policy Accessibility Accessibility Feedback Form Getting Around Directory Campus Map Campus Events Visiting Information Parking Information Shuttle Bus Schedule Initiatives Diversity and Inclusion GW Resiliency and Well-Being Center Make a Gift Contact Us Medicine + Health Magazine Copyright Privacy Notice Terms of Use Contact GW A - Z Index