Physician Observerships - International Services | UCLA Health Skip to main content Explore links (header) { leftIsLimited = ($el.getBoundingClientRect().left) Explore UCLA Health UCLA Health Home About Us Cancer Center Hospitals & Clinics School of Medicine Academic Departments News & Insights Community & Equity Refer a Patient Universal links (header) myUCLAhealth Contact Us Translate English العربية 中文 Italiano 日本語 한국어 فارسی Русский Español Tiếng Việt Translate English العربية 中文 Italiano 日本語 한국어 فارسی Русский Español Tiếng Việt Search Search Try looking up a doctor, a clinic location, or information about a condition/treatment. Search Or jump to search for: Providers Locations Medical services Clinical trials News Events Primary navigation Find Care > Find a Doctor Find a Location Virtual Care Make an Appointment Second Opinion Consults Medical Services Cancer Medical Services Clinical Trials Wellness & Routine Care Patient Resources > Prepare for Your Visit Billing & Insurance Support & Information Patient Portal (myUCLAhealth) & Medical Records Help Paying Your Bill International Services Patient Scam Alert Locations > Immediate Care Primary Care Pediatric Care Cancer Care Surgical Centers Imaging/Radiology Hospitals All Locations Discover > About UCLA Health News & Insights Patient Stories Events Calendar Donate to UCLA Health Work at UCLA Health For Health Care Professionals Connect with UCLA Health Find a Doctor Primary navigation (mobile) Find a Doctor Find Care Find a Doctor Find a Location Virtual Care Make an Appointment Second Opinion Consults Medical Services Cancer Medical Services Clinical Trials Wellness & Routine Care Patient Resources Prepare for Your Visit Billing & Insurance Support & Information Patient Portal (myUCLAhealth) & Medical Records Help Paying Your Bill International Services Patient Scam Alert Locations Immediate Care Primary Care Pediatric Care Cancer Care Surgical Centers Imaging/Radiology Hospitals All Locations Discover About UCLA Health News & Insights Patient Stories Events Calendar Donate to UCLA Health Work at UCLA Health For Health Care Professionals Connect with UCLA Health Explore links (mobile) Explore UCLA Health UCLA Health Home About Us Cancer Center Hospitals & Clinics School of Medicine Academic Departments News & Insights Community & Equity Refer a Patient Universal links (mobile) myUCLAhealth Contact Us Breadcrumb Home International Services Consulting Services Medical Education & Training For Physicians International Services Physician Observerships Sub-navigation For Physicians Physician Observerships Physician Simulation Education UCLA Office of Continuing Medical Education For Physicians Physician Observerships Physician Simulation Education UCLA Office of Continuing Medical Education Program Overview The UCLA Health International Physician Observership Program is an informal observational experience that enables participants to observe different clinical team members from the host department. Participants will shadow UCLA Health physicians, observe them in outpatient and inpatient clinical settings, and can attend department meetings, patient rounds, and grand round lectures. Observerships are typically one to three months long and provide participants the opportunity to immerse in UCLA Health's clinical programs, gain exposure to relevant techniques and technology, and build relationships with clinicians. Observers will receive a Certificate of Participation upon successful completion of the program. U.S. and California laws and regulations, as well as UCLA Health regulations are strictly enforced, and observers will not directly participate in patient care or advise on any cases. What You Can Expect As an observer, you will be able to observe your host faculty in the clinical setting and attend lectures and meetings. You will be accompanied by an attending physician, fellow, resident, healthcare staff, or supervisor at all times when observing patients. You will not be able to perform or be involved in any patient care or research. You will not have access to UCLA Health's patient record system (CareConnect), library, or Mednet email privileges. Participation in the observership program does not have any bearing on pending or future residency or fellowship applications. UCLA Health is unable to provide any recommendation letters regarding your participation in the observership program. Federal regulations prevent observers from having patient care responsibilities or involvement in any form of volunteer research. Please note as an observer, you are not eligible to have a mednet.ucla.edu email address and cannot have access to our electronic patient record-keeping system. All health professionals participating in the UCLA Health International Physician Observership Program are required to comply with all UCLA Health and David Geffen School of Medicine policies. Observerships typically last one to three months. A request for periods longer than three months should be explained in the application. The request must be approved by the host department and an explanation of the activities that you will be observing is required from your host MD. Eligibility Minimum education - Graduation from a medical school, and completion of your medical degree. English Proficiency - In order for you to have the most productive educational and learning experience during your observership, you must be proficient in English. Visa - You are required to have a B-1 (Temporary Business Visitor) visa. Please note UCLA is unable to assist in processing visas. To find out more about temporary business visas, please go to the U.S. Customs & Immigration Services website . Program Fees Application fee: $750 ( non-refundable) Payment will need to be received prior to start of the observership. Observers will be responsible for their own travel, accommodation, and living expenses. Application Guidelines and Process Application Guidelines: Applicants may only apply to one specialty at a time. Observers must first be accepted and invited by a UCLA Health host faculty. Application Process: Step 1: Observer contacts Host Faculty / Department and receives acceptance from the Host Department. Step 2: The Host Department sends the observer a signed acceptance letter from the host faculty, with a copy (cc) sent to the International Education . (Please note: acceptance letter must include specific observership dates). Step 3: International Education provides the observer the online application link. Step 4: The observer carefully completes the online application , including all supporting documentation (see below “Application checklist”). Step 5: International Education will review the application and contact the observer & host department to: Inform them that application is complete and collect fees. Inform them that application is incomplete and request missing/incorrect documents. Step 6: International Education will provide first-day instructions to both the observer and the Host Department. Step 7: The observer begins their observership. Application Checklist: Below is the application checklist. These are documents that the observer must submit to be considered for the observership. Please note: This is only for observers who have been accepted by a host department and have received an invitation letter. If you provide this information to our office prior to acceptance by host department, you will not be considered for the observership. All documents must be uploaded and submitted via the online application form. Please DO NOT email the documents directly to us. Invitation Letter/Acceptance Email from Host Faculty/Department Online Application: Application Form Letter of Intent Signed Program Policy Agreement Signed Professional Conduct Agreement Signed Financial Agreement Signed Patent Policy and Acknowledgement Signed Abuse Reporting and Acknowledgement Signed Domestic Abuse Reporting Signed Waiver of Liability, Assumption of Risk, and Indemnity Agreement Health Screening with Documentation of Immunization Records Measles, Mumps, Rubella (MMR) Vaccines: 2 MMR vaccines at least 28 days apart OR blood titer indicating immunity. Varicella (Chicken Pox) Vaccines: 2 Varicella Vaccines at least 28 days apart OR blood titer indicating immunity Hepatitis B Vaccines: 3 Hep B vaccines Tetanus, Diptheria, Pertussis (TDAP) Vaccine: one TDAP vaccine within last 10 years TB Screening: Documented proof of a positive PPD or QuantiFERON Gold blood test OR Chest Xray report dated within 3 months of the start of your observership that documents no active TB Copy of Passport U.S. Visa (B-1) or ESTA visa waiver (if eligible) The visa must be valid for the entire observership period. Curriculum Vitae Copy of Valid Medical License, and English translation, if not issued in English Copy of Medical School Diploma, and English translation, if not issued in English Completion of Online Trainings: HIPAA Privacy and Information Security Training CICARE Radiation Hazard Awareness Training Safe Patient Handling Training Proof of Source of Funding Letter from organization sponsoring observer (Not needed if you will be self-funded) Proof of Health Insurance Coverage for Duration of Observership Period We do not have any requirements on what kind of coverage you purchase. However, we strongly recommend that your health insurance provides coverage for urgent or emergency situations. For additional questions regarding the program, requirements, or application process, please contact International Education . If you are interested in coming to UCLA Health as a visiting research scholar, please note this is a different program and requires a different visa. Please contact the faculty directly regarding acceptance and application. CONNECT WITH US CONNECT WITH US Contact Us Share Your Feedback International Services 中文 العربية myUCLAhealth Get the UCLA Health Apps Contact Us Share Your Feedback International Services 中文 العربية myUCLAhealth Get the UCLA Health Apps FIND CARE FIND CARE Find a Doctor Find a Location Immediate Care Emergency Care Make an Appointment Medical Services Clinical Trials Find a Doctor Find a Location Immediate Care Emergency Care Make an Appointment Medical Services Clinical Trials PATIENT RESOURCES PATIENT RESOURCES Prepare for Your Visit Visitor Guidelines Patient Education Billing & Insurance Help Paying Your Bill Price Transparency Support & Information COVID-19 Info Wellness & Routine Care Prepare for Your Visit Visitor Guidelines Patient Education Billing & Insurance Help Paying Your Bill Price Transparency Support & Information COVID-19 Info Wellness & Routine Care DISCOVER UCLA HEALTH DISCOVER UCLA HEALTH About UCLA Health Departments News, Insights and Patient Stories For Health Care Professionals Community, Equity and Inclusive Excellence Contact Media Team Donate to UCLA Health Work at UCLA Health Volunteer for UCLA Health About UCLA Health Departments News, Insights and Patient Stories For Health Care Professionals Community, Equity and Inclusive Excellence Contact Media Team Donate to UCLA Health Work at UCLA Health Volunteer for UCLA Health Facebook X-Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Weibo Policy links (footer) HIPAA Notice Privacy Notice Nondiscrimination Report Misconduct Accessibility We listen. We care. &copy; 2026 UCLA Health