International Visiting Student Program &raquo; Office of Student Affairs &raquo; College of Medicine &raquo; University of Florida Skip to main content Skip to main menu UF Health University of Florida Office of Student Affairs College of Medicine Open Search Open Main Menu Home About OSA Show submenu for About OSA About OSA Overview OSA Staff Student Support Show submenu for Student Support Student Support Overview Career Advising COM Registrar Counseling Disability Resource Center Financial Aid Learning Specialist Medical Student Portal Tutoring Program Tutor Time Reporting Tutor Time Record Medical Students - current page Show submenu for Medical Students Medical Students Overview Current Students Curriculum Catalogue Student Advocacy Committee (SAC) Student Class Officers Student Involvement Fob Request Form Incoming Medical Students Graduates Visiting Medical Student International Visiting Student Program - current page Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) Policies and Procedures Medical Students Visiting Medical Student International Visiting Student Program Medical Students Overview Expand Current Students Submenu Current Students Curriculum Catalogue Student Advocacy Committee (SAC) Expand Student Class Officers Submenu Student Class Officers 2026 Student Class Officers 2027 Student Class Officers 2028 Student Class Officers 2029 Student Class Officers Student Involvement Fob Request Form Incoming Medical Students Graduates Expand Visiting Medical Student Submenu Visiting Medical Student Expand International Visiting Student Program Submenu International Visiting Student Program How To Apply Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) International Visiting Student Program Thank you for your interest in the International Visiting Student Program at the University of Florida College of Medicine – Gainesville. Our faculty, residents and fellows are proud to participate in the education of future physicians. We provide an excellent broad-based clinical experience at our major teaching hospital, UF Health Gainesville, as well as at other affiliated sites. If you are interested in pursuing a rotation with us, your home institution must have an executed Agreement with the University of Florida. Applications We will begin accepting applications beginning March 3rd, 2026 . CATALOG 2026-2027 How to Apply Elective Schedule Catalog Handbook FAQs 1. Can I participate in rotations at UF College of Medicine? The UF College of Medicine International Visiting Student Program is only available to final-year medical student. 2. Does my school have a current affiliation agreement with UF? UF College of Medicine requires an approved affiliation agreement to be in place first before moving forward with rotation requests. Students will not be able to participate in clinical electives unless an approved affiliation agreement exists. Please use the Affiliated University &#038; College Map to verify if your home institution has an existing affiliation agreement. 3. What if my school does not have a current executed agreement? Please email UFCOM-International@ad.ufl.edu to request the affiliation template. 4. How long does it take to get an agreement executed? New affiliation agreements typically take 8-10 weeks for execution; however, sometimes may take longer if the international school requests several changes to the template. Please note. There are no financial obligations associated with executing an affiliation agreement. 5. Are there any additional requirements? Yes. Students must have completed all of the following core clerkships: Family Medicine, Internal Medicine, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pediatrics, Psychiatry, and Surgery. Students must have been instructed in safety measures and infection control precautions. The USMLE Step 1 passing score or “PASS” result is a mandatory requirement. Requests to waive this will not be considered. BLS Certificate 6. Which Gainesville departments do not accept visiting international students? The UF College of Medicine Gainesville Divisions/Departments of Cardiology, Dermatology, Family Medicine, Gastroenterology, Hematology, Hospital Medicine, Internal Medicine, Nephrology, Obstetrics &#038; Gynecology, Ophthalmology, Pediatrics, Psychiatry, Radiology and Surgery do not accept students from non-LCME accredited medical schools. The UF College of Medicine Jacksonville does offer specialty rotations in many of the departments listed above, with the exception of Family Medicine. For more information on electives offered at the University of Florida College of Medicine – Jacksonville , please contact the Office of Student Affairs at (904) 244-5128 or email Dani Brown . 7. Which Gainesville departments do accept visiting international students? The UF College of Medicine Gainesville offers specialty rotations, only with the Divisions/Departments of: Anesthesiology Emergency Medicine Infectious Disease Neurology Orthopaedics Otolaryngology Urology Please note. Sub-Internships; the required Emergency Medicine, Geriatrics, and Internship 101 are not available to visiting international students. 8. What is an Observership? Observership/Shadowing is a temporary, unpaid clinical shadowing experience for persons not formally associated with UF/UF Health, who wish to shadow a UF Health clinician rendering patient care for purposes of enhancing the observer’s knowledge about the provision of care. Observership opportunities are not active in patient care. Observers must be accompanied and/or supervised by a UF representative at all times. 9. What is the elective schedule? UF College of Medicine Gainesville offers two-week or four-week elective rotation options. Please review the Elective Schedule. A visiting student may not displace a University of Florida student from any elective. For this reason, no visiting student will be accepted for an elective at the University of Florida until all UF students have confirmed their senior schedules. Upcoming academic year scheduling will likely not begin until the end of May. UF College of Medicine fills the available seats in the following sequence: UF College of Medicine students, followed by Domestic medical students (within the U.S. Non-UF) and International medical students. While the elective schedule begins with Period 1C (May – June), Periods 1C &#038; 2C are not guaranteed to international students. 10. How many rotations can I request? UF College of Medicine allows each visiting student up to 8 weeks of rotation. Rotations range from 2 – 4 weeks depending on the specialty. 11. How do I apply? To apply for a rotation, submit your application and supporting documents via the Qualtrics survey provided below. . UF College of Medicine Departments and Divisions determine number of available seats and Period availability. How to apply 12. How much does it cost? Please review the information and details below for an example of the total cost of the International Visiting Student Program: Costs Items Amount Application Fee $50 Rotation Fee ( Effective October 1st, 2024 $1120/week) $4,480 Book &#038; Supplies N/A Food $600 Transportation $22 Miscellaneous Personal Expenses $465 Living Expenses $529-$686 Total Estimates Cost $6,146-$6,303 Tuition/Fees There will be a nonrefundable application processing fee of $50.00. Cost for visiting students is based on University of Florida tuition/fees structure for students enrolled in professional programs in dentistry, medicine, veterinary medicine, pharmacy, and certain MBA programs. The $1120/week fee is similar to the cost to UF College of Medicine students for comparable credit. Books &#038; Supplies Costs are determined by using the Education Data average cost of textbooks survey for the total cost of books and supplies in addition to estimates for materials, supplies, equipment, and technology. Food Food costs are based on the average cost of food per month for a college student. Transportation While utilizing the bus system is free when using the Gator1 ID, on-and off-campus transportation costs are estimated by using per-trip rideshare average cost for Gainesville, FL. Miscellaneous Personal Expenses The personal budget is based on the U.S. Department of Labor’s established personal and clothing costs for one person. This includes laundry, toiletries, and minor miscellaneous expenses. Living Expenses Costs are based on UF Graduate and Family Housing rental rates per month. 13. Is there a dress code? Yes. Students participating in clinical rotations will be expected to adhere to the UF College of Medicine Dress Code policy. In short, students should wear proper business attire, home institution white laboratory coat and Gator1 ID badge at all times during rotation hours . 14. Does the College of Medicine offer housing? UF College of Medicine does not offer student housing. Students remain responsible for all housing arrangements and living expenses for the duration of their rotation. The UF Department of Housing and Residence Life helps students find housing both on and off campus. Graduate and Family Housing offers attractive housing options specifically reserved for graduate and professional students, as well as student with families of their own. UF Off Campus Life assists students with off-campus housing and their transition to the Gainesville community. 15. How can I get to and around campus? UF’s custom-made, mobile-friendly Campus Map makes getting to campus easy, whether you’re walking, cycling, or driving. Gainesville Regional Transit System (RTS) is the local area transit corporation that serves the University of Florida and Greater Gainesville area. Students can ride for free with a Gator1 ID. The City of Gainesville and University of Florida are bicycle-friendly communities, as many employees and students opt to ride their bikes to campus. Students who drive to campus and park during decal-restricted hours must display a valid UF parking decal or permit, or park in a metered space or paid parking facility and pay the appropriate fee. All vehicles parked on campus must obey UF’s parking rules and regulations . 16. Does UF College of Medicine offer any other opportunities? Yes. UF College of Medicine offers the following programs, each with its own application process and requirements. Please click on the links below for more information: Volunteer/Shadowing Global Health Education Program Office of Student Affairs College of Medicine Utility Links College of Medicine Admissions Educational Affairs Physical Address 1104 Newell Drive, Suite 210 Gainesville, FL 32610 Phone 352-273-7971 Make a Gift Giving Opportunities Social Media Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn University of Florida Health - Home University of Florida - Home Log in Website Support Sitemap Disclaimer & Permitted Use Disability Services Security Policies UF Privacy Policy Shands Privacy Policy This page uses Google Analytics (Google Privacy Policy) &copy; 2026 University of Florida Health