School of Medicine - Wayne State University Skip to site menu Skip to page menu Skip to menu Skip to main content Wayne State University Warrior strong Login Search Search: Search School of Medicine School of Medicine Programs Research Students Faculty Community Alumni About Menu Make a Gift med students socializing in lounge You belong here. Wayne State University School of Medicine provides a distinct experiential advantage that sets you apart. Programs Research Students Faculty Community Alumni About Make a Gift School of Medicine programs The Warrior M.D. program M.D. Admissions Applicant portal Master’s and doctoral programs Graduate Admissions All programs Education Education Warrior M.D. advantage Wayne State provides a distinct advantage through hands-on clinical education in the heart of Detroit. Research Research Innovation Recognized as the Carnegie Foundation's best in research and engagement, and renowned for innovation. Clinical Clinical Clinical partners Students work along-side exceptional physicians who teach and practice patient care. Community Community Making an impact Leading clinicians and biomedical scientists, taking students from the classroom to the communities. News Research Research team develop nanocarrier that may offer new, less-invasive treatment option for retinopathy People Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine senior fellow wins national award e-learning curriculum Medicine Warrior M.D. Class of 2026 celebrate the next chapter at Match Day More news Match Day 2026! Events May 21 Distinguished Speaker Series: Sophie Deng, M.D., Ph.D. on May 21, 2026 at noon noon May 28 Distinguished Speaker Series: Andy Taylor, Ph.D. on May 28, 2026 at noon noon July 15 Pathology Medical Specialty Session on July 15, 2026 at noon noon July 20 Diagnostic Radiology Medical Specialty Session on July 20, 2026 at 6 p.m. 6 p.m. More events Master's degrees, doctoral degrees and M.D./Ph.D. programs in 14 areas of basic science provided to 400 students annually facebook instagram youtube linkedin flickr School of Medicine 540 E. Canfield St. Detroit, MI 48201 (map) Find a doctor Website feedback form Privacy and University Policies Wayne State University &copy; 2026