International Physician Observer Program | Cleveland Clinic Important Updates Close Important Updates Coming to a Cleveland Clinic location? Moll Cancer Center at Fairview Hospital Lorain Road driveway change E. 100th Street on Cleveland Clinic Main Campus closed 800.223.2273 MyChart Need Help? Medical Professionals Giving Careers Search Center for International Medical Education Search Cleveland Clinic Menu ClevelandClinic.org Find a Provider Locations & Directions Services Patients & Visitors Health Library Appointments MyChart Need Help? Call for Additional Assistance 800.223.2273 Center for International Medical Education Menu Center for International Medical Education About CIME CIME Services Our Team Contact Us More Cleveland Clinic Menu ClevelandClinic.org Find a Provider Locations & Directions Services Patients & Visitors Health Library Appointments Home / Institutes & Departments / Center for International Medical Education / International Visitor Programs / International Physician Observership Program International Physician Observership Program Call 216.445.1711 Contact Us Overview Specialties Duration & Fees Application Documents Required to Apply Overview Overview The Observership program is an informal shadowing experience that enables participants to watch procedures and surgeries; attend patient rounds and teaching conferences; and have full access to Cleveland Clinic&rsquo;s medical library system. Federal regulations prevent observers from having patient care responsibilities or involvement in any form of volunteer research. Who is eligible? The International Physician Observership Program is open to: Fully trained international physicians currently practicing abroad. International residents and fellows enrolled in a residency/fellowship program at a foreign institution and who are expected to graduate from that same institution. International medical students enrolled at an international medical school and who are expected to graduate from that same school after the prospective visit would take place. Medical students who are in the last year of medical school at the time of their application are not eligible. Eligible students who are in their final year of medical school may consider applying for the Elective Program . The International Physician Observership Program is not designed for international medical graduates (IMG) residing in the United States or abroad, who intend to apply for residency or fellowship in the U.S. These applications will not be considered for this program. Processing fees will not be refunded for ineligible applicants . * Visitors entering the U.S. with the following visa types are eligible to participate: B1, B2, F2, H4, J2, L2, O3 or ESTA. Visitors entering the U.S. with any other visa types are currently ineligible. A decision of acceptance or denial of any application for a Cleveland Clinic Observership Program rests with the Center for International Medical Education (CIME) in its sole discretion. Applicants from countries or geographies that are subject to comprehensive sanctions by the United States will not be accepted. Applicants from certain other countries or geographies may be rejected in the Cleveland Clinic's sole discretion for other reasons, including but not limited to being named on a restricted list, being government officials of certain geographies, being from certain countries where Cleveland Clinic has business concerns about export control or intellectual property theft, or due to the burden of additional vetting requirements being too costly or time-consuming for the CIME to implement. At this time, Cleveland Clinic Center for International Medical Education is not accepting applicants who are citizens of the following countries: Belarus, Cuba, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Russia, and Venezuela. Specialties Specialties Available specialties Observership opportunities are offered by the following Cleveland Clinic institutes on main campus in Cleveland, Ohio (unless noted differently): Cleveland Clinic Children&rsquo;s Neonatology (at Cleveland Clinic Fairview Hospital) Neonatology (at Cleveland Clinic Hillcrest Hospital) Pediatric Cardiology Pediatric Gastroenterology Pediatric Hematology/Oncology Pediatric Intensive Care Unit Cancer Institute Adult Hematology and Medical Oncology Dermatology and Plastic Surgery Institute Plastic Surgery Head & Neck Institute Head & Neck Surgery Heart, Vascular & Thoracic Institute (Miller Family) Clinical Cardiology Pathology & Laboratory Medicine Institute Anatomic & Clinical Pathology Respiratory Institute Pulmonary Critical Care (at Cleveland Clinic Fairview Hospital) Wellness & Preventive Medicine Functional Medicine All available specialties are included in a drop-down list on the application form. Spaces are limited. If the specialty you are interested in is not listed above, please visit the International Physician Preceptorship Program section. Duration & Fees Duration & Fees Duration The length of the program is one month. Fees The program fee is $500. A $200 non-refundable processing fee, which will be applied toward the program fee, will be charged for all applications. Upon acceptance to the program, the remaining non-refundable balance of $300 will be due to hold your place. A decision of acceptance or denial of any application for a Cleveland Clinic Observership Program rests with the Center for International Medical Education (CIME) in its sole discretion. Applicants from countries or geographies that are subject to comprehensive sanctions by the United States will not be accepted. Applicants from certain other countries or geographies may be rejected in the Cleveland Clinic's sole discretion for other reasons, including but not limited to being named on a restricted list, being government officials of certain geographies, being from certain countries where Cleveland Clinic has business concerns about export control or intellectual property theft, or due to the burden of additional vetting requirements being too costly or time-consuming for the CIME to implement. At this time, Cleveland Clinic Center for International Medical Education is not accepting applicants who are citizens of the following countries: Belarus, Cuba, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Russia, and Venezuela. Cleveland Clinic does not accept payments from sanctioned parties. Cancellation and Refund Policy Once your visit has been confirmed by e-mail, you&rsquo;re expected to complete your observership/preceptorship. If cancellation is unavoidable, please submit your notification in writing prior to your scheduled visit to CIME@ccf.org . Please be aware that your $200 processing fee is non-refundable and non-transferable and, in most circumstances, the full tuition amount is non-refundable. View our refund policy for details . Application Application How to apply to the International Physician Observership Program Observership applications are presented to one specialty only; please select the one specialty that reflects your area of expertise or that you are most interested in. Refer to the schedule below and select a program period most appropriate for you. APPLICATIONS ARE CLOSED. Complete the application form and submit all required documents before the close date of the period you are applying to. Pay the fee. Please be aware that your $200 processing fee is non-refundable and non-transferable. Program periods 2026 Online application open date Online application close date Expected notification of final decision Period 1: January to June 2026 June 1, 2025 July 31, 2025 September 15, 2025 Period 2: July to December 2026 December 1, 2025 January 31, 2026 March 15, 2026 Program periods 2027 Online application open date Online application close date Expected notification of final decision Period 1: January to June 2027 June 1, 2026 July 31, 2026 September 15, 2026 Period 2: July to December 2027 December 1, 2026 January 31, 2027 March 15, 2027 You will be notified in writing either that your application has been accepted or that we cannot accommodate your request. If you are accepted but we are unable to provide your requested rotation, you will be offered the next available rotation date. Requests for final decisions earlier than the notification dates listed in the last column above cannot be accommodated under any circumstances. Documents Required to Apply Documents Required to Apply Application Policies Each applicant is responsible for ensuring their application is complete and meets all eligibility criteria. The Review Committee will not consider any additional changes once an application has been submitted for review. Applicants are responsible for ensuring that all information and supporting documents provided are authentic and accurate. We reserve the right to request additional information or verification of information and documents submitted. If an applicant is unable to do so, we reserve the right to withdraw consideration of the application. Applicants assume all costs associated with authenticating, retrieving and submitting documents and material in support of their application and fulfillment of observership. Please be aware that your $200 processing fee is non-refundable and non-transferable. The tuition fee needs to be paid in full in advance prior to start of the program. No cash payment is accepted. The tuition fee needs to be paid in full in advance prior to start of the program. No cash payment is accepted. Applicants must possess competent English-language skills for a professional healthcare environment. Documents Required Up-to-date CV/Resume. Personal Statement &ndash; one page addressing your interest in this program. Letter of Recommendation from a physician or the dean of your current medical school who can attest to academic and other relevant experience issued in the past 6 months. It needs to be printed on physician's or dean's office letterhead with appropriate signatures. Official employment or medical school enrollment verification letter. The verification letter must be on the official letterhead of your employer/medical school, signed, and stamped by your employer/medical school and dated within the last six months. Kindly note there are no substitutions for your verification letter. All documents submitted must be in: English (translated documents must be completed by a certified translator) PDF, DOC or DOCX format Center for International Medical Education International Visitor Programs International Physician Observership Program International Physician Preceptorship Program Call 216.445.1711 Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Pinterest Snapchat Actions Appointments & Access Accepted Insurance Events Calendar Financial Assistance Give to Cleveland Clinic Pay Your Bill Online Price Transparency Refer a Patient Phone Directory Virtual Second Opinions Virtual Visits Blog, News & Apps Consult QD Health Essentials Newsroom MyClevelandClinic MyChart About Cleveland Clinic 100 Years of Cleveland Clinic About Us Locations Quality & Patient Safety Patient Experience Research & Innovations Community Commitment Careers For Employees Resources for Medical Professionals Site Information & Policies Send Us Feedback Site Map About this Website Copyright, Reprint & Licensing Website Terms of Use Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices Non-Discrimination and Availability 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio 44195 | 800.223.2273 | &copy; 2026 Cleveland Clinic. All Rights Reserved.