Global Education & Training - UChicago Medicine Skip to main content Become a Patient Online Second Opinions Pay My Bill 中文 Española UChicago Medicine For International Patients For Health Care Professionals About UChicago Medicine Become a Patient Online Second Opinions Pay My Bill 中文 Española UChicago Medicine Search Home International Programs International Collaboration Global Education Center Global Education Center Menu Skip to Main Content International Programs International Collaboration Global Consulting & Advisory Services Global Education Center Upcoming Events 2nd Annual International Sports Medicine and Orthopaedic Surgery Conference (at UChicago Beijing Center on November 10, 2018) Our clinical and administrative experts are committed to sharing the best practices in medicine and hospital operation with the rest of the world. We offer practical education and training programs customized to meet the specific needs of international healthcare organizations and professionals. Leadership Education Experts at UChicago Medicine share their expertise and best practices in hospital management and operations with healthcare leaders from all over the world through customized programs such as hospital executive training and nursing leadership education. Clinical Observership Program UChicago Medicine provides international physicians, nurses and allied health professionals the opportunity to observe a variety of clinical specialties. This allows them to learn about clinical practice and management through various teaching methods. Global Clinical Conferences In collaboration with selected global partners, UChicago Medicine hosts clinical conferences and webinars to share our clinical expertise and knowledge with clinicians all over the world. Hospital Management Training UChicago Medicine offers a unique experience to learn the best practices of hospital management and operations throughout lectures, discussions and onsite shadowing for different level of trainees, including management leaders and junior staff. Training is customized based on the organization&rsquo;s specific needs, and varies from one to four weeks for completion. Upcoming Courses See a list of upcoming events For More Information All Education and Training Programs are subject to fees. Please contact International Programs for detailed information about the available training programs. Email : globaleducation@uchospitals.edu Linkedin : www.linkedin.com/company/ucmglobal Interested in receiving updates from UChicago Medicine International Programs? Subscribe Now Online Second Opinions Learn More About International Collaboration Email Us +1-773-702-0506 1 2 3 4 5 6 I&#x27;d Like To... Become a Patient Refer an International Patient Explore Collaborative Projects Quick Links International Collaboration Global Consulting & Advisory Services Global Education Center Educational Events Refer an International Patient Appointments: +1-773-702-0506 Sign up for our Newsletter Subscribe The University of Chicago Medicine 5841 S. Maryland Avenue Chicago, IL 60637 773-702-1000 Website Policies Privacy Practices Legal Disclaimer Website Privacy Policy © 2026 The University of Chicago Medical Center. All rights reserved.