International Visiting Medical Observers | International Medical Education Jump to navigation Jump to content Explore UAB MyUAB BlazerNet Canvas Email Future Students Visit UAB opens a new website Apply to UAB opens a new website Request Info opens a new website Undergraduate Students Advising opens a new website Undergraduate Catalog opens a new website Request Info opens a new website Research and Service Learning opens a new website Graduate Students Graduate School opens a new website Graduate Catalog opens a new website Online Degrees opens a new website Parents & Family Services opens a new website Resources opens a new website Family Visits opens a new website Alumni Get Involved opens a new website Benefits opens a new website Events opens a new website Faculty & Staff Office of Provost opens a new website Human Resources opens a new website Faculty Resources opens a new website Staff Council opens a new website Researchers Office of Research opens a new website Harbert Institute opens a new website CCTS opens a new website Patients UAB Medicine opens a new website UAB Dentistry opens a new website UAB Optometry opens a new website Athletics Campus Map Give Calendar News Contact Us Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Collat School of Business Dentistry Education Engineering Graduate School Health Professions Honors College Medicine Nursing Optometry Public Health Explore UAB International Medical Education Heersink School of Medicine Search This Site All Sites Search Search UAB Students International Programs About Contact International Medical Education Close UAB Students International Programs About Contact International Programs International Visiting Medical Students International Visiting Medical Observers Frequently Asked Questions International Visiting Scholars Less More in this section International Programs International Visiting Medical Students International Visiting Medical Observers Frequently Asked Questions International Visiting Scholars International Medical Education Home International Programs International Visiting Medical Observers International Programs International Visiting Medical Observers International Visiting Medical Observers UAB International Medical Education welcomes requests for Observerships from international physicians, clinicians, researchers, or students who wish to observe our premier hospitals and clinics. Purpose Participation in an UAB International Visiting Medical Observership program will: Allow you to shadow outstanding faculty, attendees, and chief residents, to gain insight into the delivery of American Medicine as practiced at UAB Hospitals and clinics. Refine and enhance your medical knowledge by observing physical exams, participating in diagnosis and care discussions, and attending daily and Grand Rounds. Develop your professional communication and interaction as you participate in teaching rounds, journal clubs, and conferences. This opportunity is strictly for observing clinical processes, with no direct patient contact, communication, or hands-on clinical training. Engaging in any direct interactions with patients, including diagnosis or treatment, is STRICTLY PROHIBITED. Please note: Medical Observerships are not a substitute for formal training and any experience gained will not be creditable towards any medical/doctoral degree nor requirements for any specialty board certification. This observership program does not have any bearing on pending/future residency nor fellowship applications. Apply Now Opens an external link. Eligibility You must be a recent international medical graduate with MD or MD Equivalent (MBBS etc..) or an international medical student. Medical graduates must provide a copy of their Medical Diploma or MD Equivalent (In English) Medical students must provide a copy of their most recent transcript in English. You must have passed the USMLE Exam Step 1. (USMLE Step 2 and Step 3 are preferred but not required.) Available observership timeframes are 4 weeks or 8 weeks. Eight-week opportunities will consist of two 4-week opportunities. English Proficiency You must take one of the following English Proficiency Tests and present proof of passing with the following minimum: OET - achieving a minimum score of 350 on the Listening, Reading, and Speaking sub-tests and a minimum score of 300 on the Writing sub-test of the OET Medicine test, all in one test administration. TOEFL - passing with the following minimum scores: iBT (internet-based) score of 100 with a minimum of 22 on the speaking section Paper-based test score of 600 We will only accept TOEFL scores that have been taken within a two (2) year period from the date that the application was submitted. OET scores must be from exam taken within last two years. English Proficiency Requirement is waived if one of the following is met: English is your first language. Can provide proof of graduation from a four-year medical institution where the curriculum, all classes and rotations were taught in English. Can provide proof of passing USMLE Step2. Can provide proof of ECFMG Certification. Proof of English Proficiency not required from citizen of countries where English is the official language or from US citizens. Good command of the English language will also be determined during the virtual online interview. Fees A non-refundable application fee of $350.00 (U.S. Dollars) is required with the application. Payment of a non-refundable application fee does not guarantee acceptance. Cost per 4-week slot is $4,250.00* (U.S. Dollars) and is due upon notification of observership match. Housing, transportation, and meals are not included in the observer fee. Observership fee will only be charged if matched and offered a slot. Payment must be made by major credit card or bank wire. Please note: Fees cannot be adjusted. *Cost of observership fee subject to change without prior notice Application & Deadline Completed application must be received at least three (3) months before the proposed start of the training. Applicants that are accepted will be entered into a pool for matching with a UAB Medicine Host. Upon acceptance and match with a UAB Faculty Host, no changes will be allowed in your matched placement. International visiting medical observers who wish to observe at UAB hospitals and clinics must submit the documentation listed below in the required order and format. Only completed applications will be reviewed. Required documentation The following documentation must be compiled into two (2) PDF formatted documents in the listed order and submitted through the International Visiting Medical Observer application. (Application will be rejected if not placed in the following order): Prepare two (2) PDF files in the following order. PDF#1 - Career Experience & Recommendations Curriculum Vitae (CV). One (1) letter of recommendation. Personal Statement. PDF#2 - Personal & Academic Support Documents Passport-style Photo/Headshot. Copy of Passport (Biographical Page). English Proficiency Test Scores (TOEFL or OET Medicine). Copy of Medical Diploma (Graduates) or Most Recent transcript (Medical Students) in English USMLE Step 1 Pass Report (Required). USMLE Step 2 Score Reports (Optional). USMLE Step 3 Score Reports (Optional). Proof of Application Fee Payment ($350). Important Note for Applicants All applications are reviewed by the committee to evaluate competitiveness. Only the most competitive applications will be scheduled for a virtual online interview. Selection for an interview does not guarantee acceptance into the program. All applicants will receive either an acceptance or denial email. The decision by the committee is not reversable. All communication is by direct email. Please be sure to include the correct email address. Applications that fail to match with a UAB Medicine Host after 60 days of acceptance into the applicant match pool will be removed from the pool. Applicants will need to reapply for further consideration. Rejected applications will not be eligible for resubmission. Observership slots are limited. Apply Now Opens an external link. Policies and Procedures The same rules and regulations that apply to University of Alabama at Birmingham faculty and students apply to international observers. Your invitation and participation in our observership program are contingent upon compliant behavior and adherence to all UAB policy and procedures. If your behavior or performance is substandard, you may be asked to leave UAB and required to return to your originating country. No refund will be issued if asked to leave. This opportunity is strictly observational. Accepted, matched, and offered applicants will come to UAB as an international visiting scholar participating in observational clinical training and are STRICTLY PROHIBITED from engaging in any form of direct or indirect interactions with patients. Any departure from these guidelines will be regarded as a breach of the UAB policies and may result in immediate removal from the facility and restrictions on any future request to observe in UAB Clinical Facilities. UAB International Medical Education follows the advice of the U.S. Department of State and Foreign Affairs Manual followed by the U.S. consulates and embassies (FAM) in recommending that students participating in the IVMS Program Enter the United States on a B-1/B-2 Visa with passport stamp for B-1 (Business) per the U.S. Department of State and Foreign Affairs Manual - section - 9 FAM 402.2-5(E) (4) (U). If you are unable to participate in your observership as scheduled, please contact our office via email as soon as possible. If you have questions or concerns, please contact observer@uab.edu . Cancellation & Refund Policy All cancellation requests must be submitted in writing via email to observer@uab.edu . Cancellation Terms Observer-Initiated Cancellations More than 60 days before the start date: If the cancellation is due to a U.S. visa denial by the U.S. Embassy, and the observer submits proof of visa application and official denial, a refund of the observership fee will be issued, minus administrative processing fees. Note: The inability to obtain a Visa appointment with the U.S. Embassy within time to receive Visa prior to Observership start date does not qualify under this cancelation policy for Visa refusal. Less than 60 days before the start date: No refund will be issued. The full observership fee is non-refundable. No-Shows and Withdrawals No refund will be provided for voluntary withdrawal or failure to participate on or after the scheduled start date. Failure to Complete Pre-Arrival Requirements If the observer fails to respond to communication or complete the required pre-arrival documentation at least two weeks before the start date, this will be treated as a cancellation. No refund will be issued. Program-Initiated Cancellations If the UAB host physician or department cancels the observership, and the observer declines an alternative date, a full refund of the observership fee will be provided. The $350 application fee remains non-refundable under all circumstances. Conduct Violations Observers who demonstrate unprofessional behavior, violate UAB policies, or otherwise fail to adhere to program expectations may be removed from the program without refund. Matched Applicants If matched, International Medical Education will provide the matched applicant with an Observership packet via email. This Observership packet must be completed in its entirety before arrival to UAB. Matched applicants should not make travel arrangements or travel to UAB until they have received clearance to come to UAB from International Medical Education. Matched Applicants will be responsible for completing the following prior to the start date of their opportunity: Securing, paying for and providing details of your lodging for the duration of your opportunity at UAB, including your address and US telephone number. Send to observer@uab.edu Providing a copy of Visa, OPT, and/or EAD. Send to observer@uab.edu Providing and maintaining medical insurance that meets the minimum guidelines as outlined by UAB policy . Please send confirmation of your health insurance to obersver@uab.edu Providing the Medical Clearance Packet and all packet requirements to UAB Occupational Health at ehocchealth@uab.edu . Your email subject line to UAB Occupational Health should read: “International Visiting Medical Observer / UAB Faculty Host Name”. Please note the following within the Medical Clearance Packet: You must provide proof of physical exam performed by physician/provider in home country or U.S. within 1 year of opportunity start date. UAB Occupational Health will not perform the physical exam. Immunization records: Vaccinations must be verified by physician or clinician. Upon arrival to Birmingham, AL, a TB Chest X-ray will be performed on first day – Fee paid by the visiting observer. Providing proof of $2,000 US for living expenses and meals Providing proof of UAB HIPPA training completion to observer@uab.edu Nondiscrimination Statement Cookie Settings Contact UAB opens a new website Privacy opens a new website Terms of Use opens a new website Nondiscrimination Statement Site Login Administrator Login Frontend Login 2026 The University of Alabama at Birmingham 2026 The University of Alabama at Birmingham Nondiscrimination Statement UAB is an Equal Employment/Equal Educational Opportunity Institution dedicated to providing equal opportunities and equal access to all individuals regardless of race, color, religion, ethnic or national origin, sex (including pregnancy), genetic information, age, disability, religion, and veteran’s status. As required by Title IX, UAB prohibits sex discrimination in any education program or activity that it operates. Individuals may report concerns or questions to UAB’s Assistant Vice President and Senior Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX notice of nondiscrimination is located at uab.edu/titleix .