Observerships | UC Davis Health International Affiliations Skip to main content International Affiliations News | Careers | Giving | UC Davis Health Search All UC Davis Health search Toggle navigation International Affiliations About Us Observerships Education International Patients Partnerships Newsroom COVID-19 Information International Observership Program Clinical Observing and Research Opportunities *NOTE: When planning to travel to the U.S., please click on the U.S. State Department visa resource link to determine the turnaround time for processing visas for entry to the U.S. Disclaimer The UC Davis Health observership program is designed for currently practicing clinicians and is not suitable for students, recent medical school graduates (within the last 5 years) or individuals seeking residency opportunities or letters of recommendation. A certificate of completion will be presented at the conclusion of the observership period. Please be advised that observers will not physically engage with any patients or advise on any cases. Observers will strictly be observing/shadowing our professional staff. Participation in our observership program does not have any bearing on pending or future internship/fellowship applications. Looking to hone your clinical skills overseas while networking with world-renowned health care professionals? We're proud to offer an International Observership Program for physicians and nurses visiting from other countries. Program Length &raquo; As of April 2025 observerships will only be offered for one month or 4-weeks until further notice. The observership program typically lasts one to six months, depending on the international visitor and the hosting department at UC Davis Health. Most observerships are focused on clinical training opportunities, but some visitors are also interested in working on research projects. In these cases, visitors usually observe in the clinic environment for three months and extend their stay for up to 12 months for research activities. Role of the Observer Engage with UC Davis Health doctors and nurses. Attend outpatient clinics. Attend patient care visits and conferences. Watch patient procedures. Understand clinical workflow within their chosen area of interest. Attend department meetings, seminars, grand rounds and other educational activities. Observer Fees Fees are based on the program needs and schedule, but include charges for: Monthly program fees. Background checks. J-1 visa applications (only if required). We look forward to collaborating with you! *If you wish to apply, please send us an email at hs-ivisitors@ucdavis.edu detailing your interest along with a CV/resume and self-interest statement. Please include your area of interest within your specialty, your secondary and tertiary areas of interest, why you selected UC Davis Health and what you hope to take away from your experience. Please read the Disclaimer above and confirm you meet all the criteria before furnishing the requested documents. Required documents for an observational experience at UC Davis Health : Must be a practicing healthcare professional; medical degree conferred at least five(5) years before the current date Health Clearance Document (PDF) UC Davis Health HIPAA Privacy and Security Training External observers can provide proof by completing the training through the Compliance website Copy of Passport including any visas Invitation Letter or e-mail from the department manager Additional documents may be requested and/or required Helpful Quick Links Clinical Trials International Students and Scholars UC Davis Health UC Davis Children's Hospital UC Davis Medical Center Quick Links Maps and Directions Clinical Trials Find a Provider Referral Center UC Davis Health Encompasses School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Practice Management Group Medical Center Connect with Us Stay connected with what&rsquo;s happening at UC Davis Health. Back to top International Affiliations Education Building, Suite 3401, | Sacramento, CA 95817 | Phone: 916-734-4067 &copy; 2014 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved | Legal | Privacy Practices | News | Careers