Volunteer and Observership Opportunities BronxCare Health System En Espa&ntilde;ol Directions Make a Contribution Contact Us Search Home About Us &#9660; General Overview Health Equity Mission, Vision, and Values History Accreditations & Affiliations Community Health Needs Assessment and Community Service Plans Compliance Policy Paying for Care &#9660; Health Plan Participation Providers Covered by FAP Contracted Physician Groups Charges Surprise Billing Charity Care Policy Make a Contribution &#9660; Ways to Give Directions Highlights &#9660; Recent Highlights Latest News HealthBeat Television Programs Our Services &#9660; Women's Health &#9660; Neonatology Comprehensive Cancer Care Department of Medicine &#9660; Cardiology Endocrinology Gastroenterology Geriatrics Infectious Diseases HIV/AIDS Program Neurology Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Services Primary Care / Preventive Medicine Pulmonary & Critical Care Other Key Services Emergency Medicine Surgery &#9660; Men's Health Neurosurgery Ear, Nose, and Throat Orthopaedics Anesthesiology Radiology Ophthalmology &#9660; Ophthalmology Residency Program Optometry Residency Program Family Medicine Pediatrics Psychiatry • Psychiatry Residency Program Dentistry Medical Education BronxCare Special Care Center Pharmacy Department Physicians &#9660; Find A Physician Physician Listing Nursing &#9660; About Nursing &#9660; Join Our Team BronxCare Network &#9660; About The Network • BronxCare Health and Wellness Center • BronxCare Third Avenue Medical and Dental Practice • BronxCare Medical and Dental at Poe • BronxCare Ogden Family Medical and Dental • BronxCare Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Health Center Homepage • Outpatient Network Map Jobs &#9660; Hospital Positions Nursing Positions Volunteer & Observership Opportunities Volunteer and Observership Opportunities &#8249; Psychiatry: Home Psychiatry Residency Program Chairman’s Message Program Director’s Message A Message from Your Chiefs Program Overview Didactics Curriculum Research Fellowship Programs Medical Students Volunteer and Observership Opportunities Why Choose BronxCare? Application Process and Requirements Current Residents Alumni Our program is dedicated to fostering educational opportunities for residents, as well as for prospective applicants from around the world and international medical graduates seeking experience in the United States healthcare system. Through our Observership Program , participants have the chance to engage with our department, participate in the daily routines of clinicians, learn about ongoing clinical practices, and observe the delivery of high-quality psychiatric care in a collaborative academic environment. This experience also offers a valuable insight into the culture of our residency program and the provision of patient care, interdisciplinary teamwork, and the principles that guide BronxCare’s approach to psychiatry. Observers are welcomed as part of the learning community, gaining perspectives on what it means to train and practice in a diverse and dynamic city. Observership Programs Offered Adult Inpatient Psychiatry Addiction Psychiatry Consult and Liaison (Psychosomatic Medicine) Child & Adolescent Inpatient Psychiatry Primary Care Comprehensive Psychiatry Emergency Program (observe only) Application Process The Observership Program offers an orientation to the BronxCare Health System model of health care excellence and teamwork in an environment that offers a clinical focus and includes opportunities to participate in research and education. On the program application, please indicate your preference of rotations and dates available. Our rotations last a minimum of eight weeks and maximum of 12 weeks. If rotating at more than one site, you are required to rotate on the service a minimum of two weeks and maximum of four weeks. The minimum number of days each week on the service is three days per week, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The application fee is nonrefundable. Observership Programs Offered (and Application Fees) : 1 month ($250) 2 months ($400) 3 months ($500) Checks should be made payable to “BronxCare Health System Psychiatry Residency Training Program” and mailed to the attention of Ms. Noemi Edwards, Psychiatry Residency Training Program, 1276 Fulton Avenue, 5th Floor, Bronx, NY, 10456 . You will be notified in writing either that your request is accepted or that we cannot accommodate. If we are unable to provide your requested rotation, you will be offered the next available rotation date. You may ask questions about the program or check the status of your application by sending an email to the Residency Training Program at Nedwards@bronxcare.org . < Return to Residency Program Home The Hospital About Us Accreditations & Affiliations Charity Care Policy Compliance Policy Privacy Policy Community Health Needs Assessment and Community Service Plan Federal Torts Claims Act Deemed Facilities Our Networks BronxCare Network Outpatient Network Map BronxCare Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Health Center Our Staff Centers of Excellence Physician Directory Nursing For Patients my BronxCare Patient Portal Price Transparency Directions Contact Us Main Number: (718) 590 1800 1650 Grand Concourse, Bronx, NY 10457 1276 Fulton Ave., Bronx, NY 10456 Complete Directory BronxCare Health System Copyright © 2026 BronxCare Health System . All rights reserved.