Carver College of Medicine | The University of Iowa Skip to main content The University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine Search Submit Search Search Site Main Navigation Students and Learners Degree Programs Doctoral Programs Masters and Undergraduate Programs Graduate Medical Education Professional and Training Programs Continuing Medical Education Current Students Careers Faculty Positions Careers by Department Current Faculty and Staff About Us Leadership Meet the Dean Our History Timeline Support the Carver College of Medicine About the Carvers Mission and Vision Research and Discovery Core Facilities Office of Research Stead Family Scholars Program Explore CCOM Our Campus Science Thursdays Iowa City Entertainment, Culture, and Dining Housing Options in Iowa Program Directory Administrative Units Division of Continuing Medical Education Office of Consultation and Research in Medical Education Office of Education Support Office of Facilities, Planning, and Management Office of Faculty Affairs and Development Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Office of Human Resources Office of Information Technology Office of Research Office of Student Affairs and Curriculum Office of Statewide Clinical Education Programs UI Physicians Academic Departments Faculty Profiles Contact Us News and Events News Events Publications Media Contacts Home Pause Roy J. and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine Our mission is to inspire and educate world-class health care providers and scientists for the people of Iowa and our global community. Find Your Next Home The Roy J. and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine is a highly ranked medical school where students learn to become accomplished clinicians and top-flight researchers and educators. Degree Programs The Carver College of Medicine offers premier learning opportunities through our Doctor of Medicine, Master of Physician Assistant Studies, Master of Physical Therapy, and associated medical sciences Doctor of Philosophy programs, among others. Explore degree opportunities Degree Programs Residency and Fellowships With more than 130 accredited residency and fellowship training programs, UI Health Care and the Carver College of Medicine are an integral part of training the next generation of physicians. Explore Graduate Medical Programs Residency and Fellowships Faculty and Staff Find your home in one of our 26 academic departments. Faculty and staff positions are available in a variety of fields. Explore career opportunities Faculty and Staff Hear from Hawkeyes Denise Jamieson, MD, MPH Meet the Dean At Iowa, students become accomplished clinicians and top-flight researchers and educators by training in a rigorous, supportive environment with a strong commitment to scholarship, humanism, and mutual respect. Hear more from Dr. Jamieson Carver College of Medicine Our Campus and Community Nestled in the heart of Iowa City, one of the best small cities in the Midwest, our Carver College of Medicine campus is vibrant and welcoming. Explore Further College News A non-traditional path to a career in sonography Wednesday, May 13, 2026 Hometown beginnings inspire future family physician Tuesday, May 12, 2026 Madeline Ungs: Advocating for patients through every stage of life Monday, May 11, 2026 Browse all news Campus Events Carver College of Medicine Associated Medical Sciences Commencement Ceremony Saturday, May 16, 2026 2:00pm Hancher Auditorium Doors open one hour prior to the start of the ceremony. No tickets required. Graduates from the following programs of study (majors) will be recognized: Master of Clinical Anatomy, Master of Clinical Nutrition, Bachelor of Science in Medical Laboratory Sciences, Bachelor of Science in Nuclear Medicine Technology, and Bachelor of Science in Radiation Sciences. A livestream of the event is available: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-U76HsvfGkY Denise Jamieson, vice president for medical affairs and... Internal Medicine Grand Rounds 5/21/2026 Thursday, May 21, 2026 12:00pm to 1:00pm General Hospital Trabecular Bone Score in Clinical Practice: Beyond BMD and FRAX Amie Ogunsakin, MD Changing Medicine, Changing Lives: A Celebration of Our People Wednesday, May 27, 2026 5:30pm Hancher Auditorium UI Health Care's inaugural awards celebration Browse All Events The University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine 451 Newton Road 200 Medicine Administration Building Iowa City, IA 52242 1-319-335-6707 Report an issue with this page Admin Login Footer primary Students & Learners Degree Programs Graduate Medical Education Professional & Training Programs Continuing Medical Education Footer secondary Careers Faculty positions Explore CCOM Academic Departments Our Campus The Iowa City Area © 2026 The University of Iowa Privacy Notice UI Nondiscrimination Statement Accessibility