International Students | Loyola University Chicago Skip to main content Back to LUC.edu Office of Registration & Records Stritch School of Medicine Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Request Info Visit Apply Office of Registration & Records Stritch School of Medicine Students Current Physicians-in-Training Visiting Students Curriculum Overiew&mdash;LUMEN Elective Catalog Introduction Policies Course Catalog Specialty Elective Guide Scheduling References Faculty and Staff Forms Alumni Services Overview Degree Verification Diploma Replacement Transcript Request Academic Calendars Request Info Visit Apply Search LUC.edu Stritch - Registration & Records Students Visiting Students International Students International Students International Students Thank you for your interest in visiting Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine. Please review our course catalog and period dates at our Visiting Student page. Medical students at non-US schools must use GHLO to apply (see below for details). International Visiting Medical Student Policy We only accept applications through an electronic application service from the AAMC called Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) , which allows students from non-US schools to apply electronically to visit another medical school. VSLO is a collaborative organization, and medical schools apply for &ldquo;Home&rdquo; and/or &ldquo;Host&rdquo; membership. SSOM is a Host institution, meaning that we will host students for visiting elective clerkships from schools that are Home school members of VSLO. See https://students-residents.aamc.org/visiting-student-learning-opportunities/visiting-student-learning-opportunities-vslo for detailed information. If your school is not a VSLO Home school, you may not apply to visit Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine. You might want to encourage your school to apply for VSLO membership. If you decide to accept our elective offer, we require payment of a US $1500 acceptance fee (per elective) within 14 days of your elective offer (or your registration will be administratively canceled). Instructions for payment will be emailed to you at the time of your elective offer. Payment must be made by credit card. All fees are non-refundable. An elective rotation at Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine is designed to be a highly-valued educational experience. It should not be viewed as an &ldquo;audition&rdquo; for a residency position nor should there be any expectation that this experience will lead to an interview. To Apply: Visit your institution&rsquo;s international office or dean&rsquo;s office for instructions on how to gain access to the VSLO Application Service. You must be actively enrolled in an MD or MBBS program at a medical school that is a member of VSLO (see above) and be in your final year of medical school at the time of the elective rotation you are seeking. Your medical school must certify that they will accept the elective clerkship(s) for credit. We cannot accept students who have already graduated and received an MD or MBBS degree. You must have successfully completed the following core clinical clerkships or will complete them prior to the elective rotation: internal medicine, surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics/gynecology, and psychiatry. A passing score on USMLE Step 1 is required. If you are not a native English speaker, you must submit a TOEFL or IELTS score as proof of your English proficiency. You must submit a completed visiting student immunization form with titer lab results and documentation of vaccinations and TB testing with results. Your acceptance is contingent on approval by our Student Health Office. You must have personal health insurance for the duration of your elective. A hospitalization benefit is required. Please note that most travelers&rsquo; policies cover outpatient care only and are not adequate. If you do not have personal health insurance and don&rsquo;t know where to find it, the Patriot Exchange Program provided by the International Medical Group (IMG) is offered here as a resource: http://www.internationalinsurance.com/patriot-exchange/ . The Basic level of benefits is adequate. You are free to obtain your personal health insurance from the insurance provider of your choice. The Dean, Registrar, or other certifying official at your school must certify that you are in good academic standing. Professional liability/medical malpractice insurance at limits of US$1 million (per incident) and US$3 million (aggregate) will be provided, during the period of enrollment, for any accepted international visiting student by Stritch who isn&rsquo;t already covered by a professional liability/medical malpractice insurance policy at the above minimum limits or better. You must document satisfactory completion of OSHA Universal Precautions training and HIPAA training. If this has not been completed prior to starting the elective at Loyola, the departmental elective coordinator will guide the student through completing the appropriate &ldquo;e-learning&rdquo; modules. If you are not a US citizen or permanent resident, you must obtain the appropriate visa and provide us with such documentation. Due to visa requirements, you may not work in any capacity or be provided with any remuneration for activities while at Loyola. Visiting students may enroll for a maximum of 12 elective weeks. The electives available to international students are all four weeks in length at Loyola. Students are expected to register according to Loyola&rsquo;s visiting student elective timetable. You must apply for each elective experience through VSLO. If Accepted: Loyola University Stritch School of Medicine does not provide housing. If you don&rsquo;t have a family member or friend in the Chicago area to stay with during your rotation here, it is recommended that you check www.rotatingroom.com and www.craigslist.org for apartments or rooms to rent in the following areas: Forest Park, Oak Park, Westchester, Brookfield, Riverside, and North Riverside. Maywood is NOT recommended. Students are responsible for providing transportation to and from the elective site, which is typically Loyola University Medical Center, but travel to other sites may be required . Public transportation is available on a limited schedule. You must supply us with your local address and phone number for the duration of your stay and with the name and phone number of your emergency contact. Any cancellation of elective must be made as early as possible, preferably at least four weeks ahead of the start date. One or two weeks before the elective clerkship is scheduled to begin, you will receive an email with instructions for your first day from the Office of Registration & Records. Thank you for your interest in visiting Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine. Please review our course catalog and period dates at our Visiting Student page. Medical students at non-US schools must use GHLO to apply (see below for details). International Visiting Medical Student Policy We only accept applications through an electronic application service from the AAMC called Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) , which allows students from non-US schools to apply electronically to visit another medical school. VSLO is a collaborative organization, and medical schools apply for &ldquo;Home&rdquo; and/or &ldquo;Host&rdquo; membership. SSOM is a Host institution, meaning that we will host students for visiting elective clerkships from schools that are Home school members of VSLO. See https://students-residents.aamc.org/visiting-student-learning-opportunities/visiting-student-learning-opportunities-vslo for detailed information. If your school is not a VSLO Home school, you may not apply to visit Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine. You might want to encourage your school to apply for VSLO membership. If you decide to accept our elective offer, we require payment of a US $1500 acceptance fee (per elective) within 14 days of your elective offer (or your registration will be administratively canceled). Instructions for payment will be emailed to you at the time of your elective offer. Payment must be made by credit card. All fees are non-refundable. An elective rotation at Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine is designed to be a highly-valued educational experience. It should not be viewed as an &ldquo;audition&rdquo; for a residency position nor should there be any expectation that this experience will lead to an interview. To Apply: Visit your institution&rsquo;s international office or dean&rsquo;s office for instructions on how to gain access to the VSLO Application Service. You must be actively enrolled in an MD or MBBS program at a medical school that is a member of VSLO (see above) and be in your final year of medical school at the time of the elective rotation you are seeking. Your medical school must certify that they will accept the elective clerkship(s) for credit. We cannot accept students who have already graduated and received an MD or MBBS degree. You must have successfully completed the following core clinical clerkships or will complete them prior to the elective rotation: internal medicine, surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics/gynecology, and psychiatry. A passing score on USMLE Step 1 is required. If you are not a native English speaker, you must submit a TOEFL or IELTS score as proof of your English proficiency. You must submit a completed visiting student immunization form with titer lab results and documentation of vaccinations and TB testing with results. Your acceptance is contingent on approval by our Student Health Office. You must have personal health insurance for the duration of your elective. A hospitalization benefit is required. Please note that most travelers&rsquo; policies cover outpatient care only and are not adequate. If you do not have personal health insurance and don&rsquo;t know where to find it, the Patriot Exchange Program provided by the International Medical Group (IMG) is offered here as a resource: http://www.internationalinsurance.com/patriot-exchange/ . The Basic level of benefits is adequate. You are free to obtain your personal health insurance from the insurance provider of your choice. The Dean, Registrar, or other certifying official at your school must certify that you are in good academic standing. Professional liability/medical malpractice insurance at limits of US$1 million (per incident) and US$3 million (aggregate) will be provided, during the period of enrollment, for any accepted international visiting student by Stritch who isn&rsquo;t already covered by a professional liability/medical malpractice insurance policy at the above minimum limits or better. You must document satisfactory completion of OSHA Universal Precautions training and HIPAA training. If this has not been completed prior to starting the elective at Loyola, the departmental elective coordinator will guide the student through completing the appropriate &ldquo;e-learning&rdquo; modules. If you are not a US citizen or permanent resident, you must obtain the appropriate visa and provide us with such documentation. Due to visa requirements, you may not work in any capacity or be provided with any remuneration for activities while at Loyola. Visiting students may enroll for a maximum of 12 elective weeks. The electives available to international students are all four weeks in length at Loyola. Students are expected to register according to Loyola&rsquo;s visiting student elective timetable. You must apply for each elective experience through VSLO. If Accepted: Loyola University Stritch School of Medicine does not provide housing. If you don&rsquo;t have a family member or friend in the Chicago area to stay with during your rotation here, it is recommended that you check www.rotatingroom.com and www.craigslist.org for apartments or rooms to rent in the following areas: Forest Park, Oak Park, Westchester, Brookfield, Riverside, and North Riverside. Maywood is NOT recommended. Students are responsible for providing transportation to and from the elective site, which is typically Loyola University Medical Center, but travel to other sites may be required . Public transportation is available on a limited schedule. You must supply us with your local address and phone number for the duration of your stay and with the name and phone number of your emergency contact. Any cancellation of elective must be made as early as possible, preferably at least four weeks ahead of the start date. One or two weeks before the elective clerkship is scheduled to begin, you will receive an email with instructions for your first day from the Office of Registration & Records. In this section US Allopathic and Osteopathic Students International Students FAQs Loyola University Chicago 2160 South First Avenue Maywood, IL 60153 708.216.3229 Contact Us Maps & Directions About Loyola News Events Careers Mission & Values Student Achievement Campus Resources LOCUS Directories University Libraries Registration & Records A-Z Copyright & Disclaimer 2026 Privacy Policy IBHE Complaint System Land Acknowledgement Nondiscrimination Policy Back to Top honeypot link