Visiting Student Clerkships - MD Program Skip to Content Open Site Navigation WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FOR? WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FOR? Submit Key Searches MD Program Residencies and Clinical Fellowships Physician Assistant Program Master of Public Health Keck School Research Faculty Newsroom Research Back Research Home Cutting-edge research drives innovation in healthcare at the Keck School of Medicine Research Programs & Labs Where Research Happens Research Funding Training and Education Researcher Resources Collaborate and Partner Education Back Education Home Nurturing future healthcare leaders through excellence in education MD Program Residencies and Clinical Fellowships PhD Programs Master's Programs Professional Degrees Post-Doctoral Researchers CME, Certificate & Undergraduate Programs Departments, Institutes & Centers Back Basic Science and Clinical Departments Exploring foundational science and specialized clinical fields Institutes and Centers Research Programs & Labs About Back About the Keck School Discover the mission, history, and vision of the Keck School of Medicine History Mission, Vision and Values Leadership Dean's Corner Life in Southern California Visit Our Faculty Current Students Newsroom Events Calendar Support the Keck School USC.edu Are You a Patient? MD Program Visiting Student Clerkships Application Information In This Section MD Program Dual Degrees Contact the Program Prospective Students Admissions Academic Requirements Academic Calendar Financial Aid Health and Immunization Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Resources Student Spotlights Curriculum Educational Objectives Curriculum Description Student Experience Student Affairs Academic Support Academic and Career Advising Community Engagement Student Life Wellbeing Research Opportunities Student & Alumni Records MD Graduates Licensing Information Visiting Student Clerkships Alumni Services Leadership Join Us In Los Angeles The Keck School of Medicine of USC welcomes visiting students from Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) and American Osteopathic Association Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) accredited institutions. If you are interested in clerkships at our institution, please explore the appropriate section below for more information. Learn more about working, living and learning in Southern California LCME and COCA Accredited Medical School Applicants Students in good academic standing in their senior year at US schools of medicine accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) and students at schools accredited by the American Osteopathic Association Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) may apply for clinical clerkships at the Keck School of Medicine of the University of Southern California for a maximum of eight weeks. The Keck School of Medicine accepts visiting student applications through the Visiting Student Learning Opportunities Program 2026-2027 Rotations Timeline February 9th: VSLO catalog will be open to view. March 9th: Applications will start being accepted. For questions regarding visiting student rotations, please email [email&#160;protected] Rotation Criteria In order for a student to be placed in a rotation, the following criteria must be met: The applicant must be in the final year of their medical education program (4th year medical student) at the time of the rotation and in good standing. The applicant’s file must be complete. Keck School of Medicine and individual department requirements must be met. The rotation must be available during the requested time period. Housing Please note that the Keck School of Medicine is unable to provide or arrange housing, board or travel expenses. No stipend is provided during this clerkship. Although we do not offer formal housing placement, some information regarding housing and transportation is provided here Sub-Internship Scholarship Award in General Surgery The Department of Surgery at the University of Southern California has recognized the growing need for its residency program to be a direct representation of the patient population it serves. To this end, the Department, in combination with the Keck Medicine of USC Community Benefit and Outreach Program, has created the Sub-Internship Scholarship Award aimed at attracting a broad range of students to our institution. This award will be targeted at medical students from a variety of backgrounds with goals of producing an outstanding sub-internship experience, facilitating community volunteering, providing strong mentorship opportunities, and increasing exposure to our faculty and residents. Learn more about this transformative opportunity here . Keck School of Medicine of USC 1975 Zonal Ave. Los Angeles, CA 90033 Google Map Phone: (323) 442-1900 Hours: Monday–Friday 7:30am–5:00pm PST Resources For Current Students Faculty & Staff Patients Community Press Visitors Alumni Areas of Focus Education & Training Research Patient Care Community Departments and Offices Departments Institutes and Centers Research Programs & Labs Administrative Offices Giving About History Leadership Annual Report Digital Accessibility Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination Smoke-Free Policy Copyright © 2026 University of Southern California Intranet