Visiting Students | MD Program - Carver College of Medicine | The University of Iowa Skip to main content The University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine MD Program Search Submit Search Search Site Main Navigation About the Program Mission & Vision Contact Us Faculty and Staff Directory Learning Communities Bean Community Boulware Community Flocks Community McCowen Community Learning Community FAQ Peer Mentoring Program Program Events Match Day White Coat Ceremony MD Commencement / Ceremony Admissions Life in Iowa City Application Process Combined Degree Programs Requirements Dates & Deadlines Selection Process Letters of Recommendation Interview FAQ Current Class Profile Technical Standards Admitted Students Becoming A Physician Curriculum MD Curriculum Curriculum Overview Current Student Resources Combined Degree Programs MD/MBA MD/MPH MD/PhD MD/JD Distinction Tracks Global Health Distinction Track Health Care Delivery Science, Management and Policy Distinction Humanities Distinction Track Research Distinction Track Service Distinction Track Teaching Distinction Track Educational Opportunities CCOM Rural Iowa Scholars Program (CRISP) Community Health Outreach Clinical Skills Assessment Program Global Health Des Moines Campus Introduction to Medical Education at Iowa Financial Aid Application Requirements Disbursement Requirements Tuition and Cost of Attendance Sources of Financial Aid Grants and Scholarships Federal Loans Collegiate Loans Emergency Short-Term Loans M4 Residency Search Loans Private Scholarship Sources Physician Assistants Information CCOMmon Cents Frequently Asked Questions Student and Program Resources Administration Educator&#039;s Handbook Councils and Committees Registrar Student Services Departmental Services Alumni Services USMLE Financial Services Academic Support and Tutoring Career Advising Specialty Specific Faculty Advisor (SSFA) Understanding ERAS Career Advising Fairs Career Connection Career Mentor Request Clinical Department Career Information Resources Career Development Mentoring at CCOM Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society Gold Humanism Honor Society Medical Student Performance Evaluation The Student Handbook Visiting Students Opportunities for Growth Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writing and Humanities Program Community Service Learning Communities Student Counseling MSCC Wellness Resources Programs and Workshops Resources and Referral Information Personal Counseling MSCC Staff Disability & Reasonable Accommodations Crisis and Emergency Procedures Guide for Faculty and Staff Well-Being and Belonging: Helpful Links Introduction to Medical Education at Iowa Meeting Basic Needs Breadcrumb Home Student and Program Resources Visiting Students Visiting Students Visiting Student Information Main navigation Administration Educator&#039;s Handbook Councils and Committees Honor Code and Council Admissions Committee Medical Education Council Caduceus Promotions Committee Appeals Committee Clinical Experiences Committee Medical Student Wellness Committee Registrar Student Services Medical Student Performance Evaluation Instructions Departmental Services Alumni Services USMLE Financial Services Academic Support and Tutoring Career Advising Specialty Specific Faculty Advisor (SSFA) Understanding ERAS Career Advising Fairs Career Connection Career Mentor Request Clinical Department Career Information Resources Career Development Mentoring at CCOM Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society Gold Humanism Honor Society Medical Student Performance Evaluation The Student Handbook Visiting Students Opportunities for Growth Research Opportunities Summer Research Fellowship Program Medical Student Research Conference Student Organizations CCOM Student Government PA Student Government Habitat for Humanity Writing and Humanities Program Community Service Learning Communities Student Counseling MSCC Wellness Resources Programs and Workshops Resources and Referral Information Personal Counseling MSCC Staff Disability & Reasonable Accommodations Crisis and Emergency Procedures Guide for Faculty and Staff Well-Being and Belonging: Helpful Links Introduction to Medical Education at Iowa Meeting Basic Needs Are you a student from outside the US? See the guidelines for international visiting students Are you a doctor of osteopathic medicine student? Find our information for D.O. students . Are you interested in UI Visiting Student Scholars in Medicine Program? Click for information . The University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine accepts applications from visiting fourth year medical students from LCME accredited schools. After University of Iowa medical students have been accommodated, remaining clerkship vacancies are open to visiting students. The 2026 visiting student application, for opportunities in July, August, September and October, will open April 1. Third year medical students and students from non-LCME accredited schools are not eligible, except from Des Moines University on a limited basis. Information for students enrolled in Osteopathic Medical Schools is discussed below . As space allows, all departments accept visiting medicial students including: Anesthesia, Cardiothoracic Surgery, Dermatology, Emergency Medicine, Family Medicine, Internal Medicine, Neurology, Neurological Surgery, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ophthalmology, Orthopedics, Otolaryngology, Pathology, Pediatrics, Psychiatry, Radiology, Radiation Oncology, Surgery, Plastic Surgery and Urology . Students interested in the departments listed below must use the link to complete the department's application process and obtain conditional acceptance prior to submitting an application to the Carver College of Medicine: Anesthesia Dermatology Emergency Medicine Family Medicine Neurology Ophthalmology Orthopedics Pathology Urology Visiting Student Policies Only courses listed in the elective catalog and in the application are eligible for enrollment. Applications are processed a minimum of 4-weeks prior to the clerkship start date. There will be a $75 non-refundable acceptance fee due if the visiting student application is accepted. This fee will be due at the time of offer to secure your seat. Living arrangements are the responsibility of the student. All visiting students should be familiar with The Student Handbook , for important information on policies and procedures, as well as professional conduct. We require four weeks minimum notice to drop an elective. When students violate this policy, their home school will be notified. Application Process If you are applying for a rotation with Anesthesia , Emergency Medicine , Family Medicine , Dermatology , Neurology , Ophthalmology , Orthopedics , Pathology or Urology , complete the departmental application on their website. Only after conditional acceptance from the department will you complete the following steps. For all other rotations/departments, complete the following. Step 1: Complete the Visiting Student Elective Application The application will open April 1, 2026. Applications will be processed starting in May and you will be notified at least 1 month in advance of the clerkship. Block schedule dates are 4 weeks in length, and align with the CCOM calendar. Off-cycle dates are not available. 2026 start dates: 7/6, 8/3, 8/31, 9/28. List of Potential Visiting Courses 2026 Visiting Course Descriptions Step 2: Your school will be notified via email to verify the following Only if your school does not verify any of the following will you need to provide documentation. Eligible applicants must: Be a fourth year medical student, and have completed core clinical courses comparable to that of the Carver College of Medicine Be from an Liaison Committee on Medical Education accredited school (We cannot accept applications from D.O. students in Osteopathic programs except from Des Moines University on a limited basis ) Have passed USMLE Step 1 Have health insurance Have malpractice insurance with a $1 million per claim/$3 million aggregate minimum Meet our health and immunization requirements Have received HIPAA and universal precautions training Have completed a background check Step 3: You will be contacted 4-6 weeks prior to the start of the rotation if an opportunity is available. Applications are reviewed on a first come first served basis. Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine Students We cannot accept applications from D.O. students in Osteopathic programs except from Des Moines University on a limited basis. Pilot program for D.O. students from Des Moines University The University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine annually accepts applications from visiting fourth year medical students from LCME accredited schools based on the reciprocal nature of sending our fourth year medical students to these same LCME accredited schools. On a limited basis, CCOM is piloting our ability to accept visiting applications from Osteopathic fourth year students at Des Moines University despite the lack of a reciprocal exchange for CCOM students. Due to existing limitations of clinical faculty teaching time as well as a scarcity of available clinical clerkship spots for all University of Iowa allied healthcare learners, there is a limited number of visiting 4-week rotation opportunities for Des Moines University students. For 2026, Des Moines University students are welcome to apply for clerkships in the departments of: Anesthesia Cardiothoracic Surgery Emergency Medicine Neurosurgery Pathology Pediatrics Psychiatry Radiation Oncology Radiology Urology Brief 1-2 day “auditions” are not allowed. There are significant costs to providing clinical education of each medical student. Tuition and fees will be charged for the training of these outside medical students. The University of Iowa MD Program Carver College of Medicine 375 Newton Road 1216 Medical Education Research Facility Iowa City, IA 52242 Phone: 319-335-6707 Report an issue with this page Admin Login © 2026 The University of Iowa Privacy Notice UI Nondiscrimination Statement Accessibility