Visiting Medical Students | Wake Forest University School of Medicine Skip navigation Atrium Health Wake Forest Baptist School of Medicine Explore Our System Brenner Children's Hospital Comprehensive Cancer Center Network Hospitals: Davie Medical Center High Point Medical Center Lexington Medical Center Wilkes Medical Center Search Faculty Search Library Alumni Giving Sitemap About the School School of Medicine Leadership Dean’s Office Faculty Affairs Features and Stories History Careers Institutional Effectiveness and Compliance Academic Accreditation Learning Environment / Professionalism and Student Mistreatment Title IX Facilities and Environment Campuses Virtual Tours Learning Spaces Research Excellence Maps and Directions Technology Transfer and Commercialization Wake Forest Innovations Develop Your Ideas Technology for License About the School Education and Training MD Program Prospective Students PA Studies DMSc Program PA Program Academic Nursing Programs Post Master's to DNP Program DNP Nurse Anesthesia Program Biomedical Graduate Programs Online Programs Onsite Programs Residencies and Fellowships Full Program List Joint Degree Programs Continuing Professional Education Center for Experiential and Applied Learning Northwest AHEC Office of Continuing Medical Education Educational Excellence Health, Wellness and Counseling Global Health Student Organizations The Center of Excellence for Research, Teaching and Learning Center for Personal and Professional Development Enrollment Services Admissions Financial Aid International and Transfer Students Paying Your Bill Student Records Student Right to Know Visiting Medical Students Explore All Education and Training Research Research Focus Areas Cardiovascular Sciences Center Center on Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism Comprehensive Cancer Center Hypertension and Vascular Research Center Sticht Center for Healthy Aging and Alzheimer’s Prevention Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine (WFIRM) View all Institutes and Centers Translation to Care Center for Artificial Intelligence Research Center for Healthcare Innovation Maya Angelou Research Center for Healthy Communities (MARCH) Implementation Science Center for Precision Medicine Public Health Sciences More Resources Wake Forest Clinical and Translational Science Institute Shared Resources and Cores Research and Faculty Labs Get Involved in Clinical Trials Research Symposium Features and Stories Grants and Published Research Research Departments Campus and Community Life Living in Winston-Salem Living in Charlotte Campus Facilities and Services Technology Transportation and Parking Campus Safety and Security Student Life Campus and Community Life About the School Back School of Medicine Leadership Dean’s Office Faculty Affairs Features and Stories History Careers Institutional Effectiveness and Compliance Academic Accreditation Learning Environment / Professionalism and Student Mistreatment Title IX Facilities and Environment Campuses Virtual Tours Learning Spaces Research Excellence Maps and Directions Technology Transfer and Commercialization Wake Forest Innovations Develop Your Ideas Technology for License About the School Education and Training Back MD Program Prospective Students PA Studies DMSc Program PA Program Academic Nursing Programs Post Master's to DNP Program DNP Nurse Anesthesia Program Biomedical Graduate Programs Online Programs Onsite Programs Residencies and Fellowships Full Program List Joint Degree Programs Continuing Professional Education Center for Experiential and Applied Learning Northwest AHEC Office of Continuing Medical Education Educational Excellence Health, Wellness and Counseling Global Health Student Organizations The Center of Excellence for Research, Teaching and Learning Center for Personal and Professional Development Enrollment Services Admissions Financial Aid International and Transfer Students Paying Your Bill Student Records Student Right to Know Visiting Medical Students Explore All Education and Training Research Back Research Focus Areas Cardiovascular Sciences Center Center on Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism Comprehensive Cancer Center Hypertension and Vascular Research Center Sticht Center for Healthy Aging and Alzheimer’s Prevention Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine (WFIRM) View all Institutes and Centers Translation to Care Center for Artificial Intelligence Research Center for Healthcare Innovation Maya Angelou Research Center for Healthy Communities (MARCH) Implementation Science Center for Precision Medicine Public Health Sciences More Resources Wake Forest Clinical and Translational Science Institute Shared Resources and Cores Research and Faculty Labs Get Involved in Clinical Trials Research Symposium Features and Stories Grants and Published Research Research Departments Campus and Community Life Back Living in Winston-Salem Living in Charlotte Campus Facilities and Services Technology Transportation and Parking Campus Safety and Security Student Life Campus and Community Life Faculty Search Library Alumni Giving Atrium Health Wake Forest Baptist School of Medicine Explore Our System Back Brenner Children's Hospital Comprehensive Cancer Center Network Hospitals: Back Davie Medical Center High Point Medical Center Lexington Medical Center Wilkes Medical Center Menu Search Search Go https://atriumhealthproduction2e3o79eek.orghipaa.coveo.com Wake Forest University School of Medicine Education and Training MD Program Visiting Medical Students Visiting Medical Students Providing an enriching opportunity for both the school and the applicant through advanced training at Wake Forest University School of Medicine. The Visiting Medical Student Program at Wake Forest University School of Medicine provides an enriching opportunity for the school, health system and the applicant. Prioritization is given to Wake Forest University School of Medicine students. Visiting medical students who request a rotation are not guaranteed a rotation and rotations are subject to change. To attend an elective rotation at the school of medicine, you must be actively pursuing a Doctor of Medicine or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree, be in good academic standing, have successfully completed your 3rd year, and successfully passed USMLE Step 1 or COMLEX Level 1. All applicants must apply in the AAMC VSLO &reg; platform where additional requirements are noted. Available Rotations for Visiting Students in Winston-Salem 2026 - 2027 Anatomic & Clinical Pathology - Winston Salem Anesthesiology Breast Surgery Burn Surgery Clinical Dermatology Colon and Rectal Surgery Dermatology Research (non-clinical) Diagnostic Radiology Emergency General Surgery Emergency Medicine Family Medicine Forensic Pathology General Neurology Inpatient Neurology Consults Interventional Radiology Minimally Invasive/Bariatric Surgery Nephrology Research Neurology Outpatient Clinic Neurology Research Neurosurgery Ophthalmology Orthopaedic Surgery Otolaryngology Pediatric Community Health and Engagement Pediatric Hematology/Oncology Pediatric Neurology Pediatric Surgery Plastic Surgery Projects in Medical Education Research and Development Radiation Oncology Refugee and Immigrant Healthcare Safety Net Healthcare: Bridging Gaps and Building Advocacy Stroke Acting Internship Surgical Oncology Surgical Pathology Transplant Surgery Trauma Surgery Urology Vascular Surgery Learn more about Residency Opportunities in Winston-Salem . Available Rotations for Visiting Students in Charlotte 2026 - 2027 Some of these rotations may not offer a residency program. Please make sure to inquire if a residency is desired. Advanced Skills and Procedures in Family Medicine Ambulatory Pediatrics Cardiology Charlotte Vascular & Interventional Radiology Emergency General Surgery Charlotte Emergency General Surgery Mercy Emergency General Surgery Pineville Emergency General Surgery University City Emergency Medicine Emergency Medicine - Healthcare Disparities Family Medicine &ndash; Union/Monroe Family Medicine &ndash; Carolinas Medical Center Family Medicine Inpatient - Cabarrus Family Medicine Outpatient - Cabarrus Gastroenterology General Internal Medicine General Neurology General Pediatric Inpatient General Surgery (RED) Gynecologic Oncology Gynecology Hematology/Oncology Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Surgery Infectious Diseases Lifestyle Medicine &ndash; Cabarrus Maternal Fetal Medicine Medical Genetics Medical Toxicology Medicine ICU Minimally Invasive Surgery Neonatology (NICU) Neurosurgery Obesity Medicine and Bariatric Surgery Oncologic Dermatology - CLT Ophthalmology - Charlotte Orthopaedic Surgery Otolaryngology &ndash; Head & Neck Surgery Pediatric & Adolescent Care in Underserved Populations Pediatric Cardiology Pediatric Endocrinology Pediatric GI, Hepatology & Nutrition - Charlotte Pediatric Hematology/Oncology Pediatric Hospital Medicine Pediatric ICU Pediatric Infectious Disease and Immunology Pediatric Nephrology Pediatric Pulmonology Pediatric Rehabilitation Pediatric Rheumatology Pediatric Surgery Plastic Surgery Psychiatry: Adult Inpatient Psychiatry: Child and Adolescent Psychiatry: Consult-Liaison Psychiatry: Emergency Room Psychiatry: Outpatient Community Radiation Oncology Rehabilitation Medicine Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility Rheumatology Rural Medicine Experience Spinal Cord Injury Medicine Surgical Oncology Soft Tissue and Breast Surgical Oncology Surgical Trauma ICU Transplant Surgery Traumatic Brain Injury Urban Underserved Medicine in Family Medicine Urology Learn more about Residency Opportunities in Charlotte . Elective Availability You may review electives offered by accessing the 4th-year course catalog in VSLO &reg; . Please note that there is limited availability for each elective offered and only during dates indicated. Application Information Wake Forest University School of Medicine and Atrium Health are considering applications for visiting 4th-year medical student clinical opportunities for both Charlotte, NC, and Winston-Salem, NC, locations. Visiting MD and DO applications through VSLO &reg; (Visiting Student Learning Opportunities) will open March 13, 2026 and will be coordinated through Wake Forest University School of Medicine&rsquo;s Comprehensive Learner Management Office. We provide confidential and specialized disability support and are committed to excellence in accessibility; we encourage students with disabilities to disclose and seek reasonable accommodation when needed to meet the Technical Standards or engage in the curriculum. For more information about requesting accommodations please contact the Center for Learning, Access, and Student Success (CLASS) at class@wfu.edu or call 336-758-5929 . More information can be found at class.wfu.edu. Affiliation Agreement The School of Medicine requires an approved affiliation agreement with your home institution to allow for participation in the Visiting Student Program. The approved agreement must be in place at least 30 days prior to the start date of your rotation. All requests to establish affiliation agreements must be submitted by an appropriate home school representative only, via email to affiliationagreement@wfusm.edu . The request should include: Official name of the institution or school of medicine Location of institution or school of medicine Type of program (i.e., MD, DO) Length of program Compelling educational reason to establish agreement Home representative or institution contact information Application Requirements All students who apply to the Visiting Student Program must have the following information in their VSLO &reg; application before it will be reviewed: Curriculum vitae. Academic transcript. Photo. Copy of General and Professional Liability Certificate of Coverage (minimum of $1 million per instance, and $3 million in total). School's evaluation form. School attestation that the student applicant has successfully completed their 3rd year and is in good academic standing. Attestation that student has passed USMLE Step 1 or COMLEX Level 1. An attestation confirming that visiting medical students are willing to obtain additional general and professional liability insurance if this coverage is not supplied by their home institution. Confirmation that the student is taking electives for credit and will pay tuition at their home school during the period indicated. Home School Attestation - Student will Rotate on WF Rotation Dates and Attendance Policy. Student Attestation - WF Rotation Dates and Attendance Policy. Some programs may require the submission of additional requirements such as: Letter(s) of recommendation from a faculty member with whom the student has worked in a clinical setting. The letter should address the clinical skills and abilities of the student. Student's personal statement. Student letter of interest. Copy of USMLE or COMLEX board scores. There will be additional compliance and onboarding requirements when you accept an elective rotation. More information will be provided at that time by email. Students must be aware of the following requirements that impact the consideration of their application for a rotation: Accepted students may be displaced and their rotation canceled if the health system has a shortage of PPE, a surge in patients which impacts services within the health system, and/or other unforeseen conditions. All visiting student fees and payments are non-refundable and non-transferable. Cancellation or withdraw must be made 5 weeks prior to the clinical rotation start date. Medical students must withdraw their application in VSLO &reg; . Visiting students must comply with WFUSM program specific attendance policies and requirements. School of Medicine Elective Dates All visiting students must adhere to the Wake Forest attendance policy, maximum of 2 full day absences (course leaders maintain course specific information), and in general, absences must be submitted at least 14 days prior to the start of the course. Our catalog becomes visible in VSLO&reg; on February 27, with the ability to apply to electives on March 13, until September 1. All approved visiting students must adhere to the School of Medicine Year 4 rotation schedule start dates and attendance policy. Block Start Date End Date 4 6/22/2026 7/19/2026 5 7/20/2026 8/16/2026 6 8/17/2026 9/13/2026 7 9/14/2026 10/11/2026 8 10/12/2026 11/8/2026 9 11/9/2026 12/6/2026 10 12/7/2026 1/17/2027 11 1/19/2027 2/14/2027 12 2/15/2027 3/14/2027 International Students Wake Forest University School of Medicine students have priority for elective placements, followed by visiting domestic students from other US institutions then international medical students therefore limiting the availability of specific specialties and multiple elective opportunities for international medical students. The process for visiting international full-time students in their final year of medical school doing clinical electives is a lengthy one. Our program has limited availability, and international students are offered electives based on the availability of the clinical elective slots. Available elective slots are scheduled during a specified time annually (August 2026 &ndash; February 2027). We require at least 180 days lead time, and an affiliation agreement must be in place 30 days prior to the start of the rotation. Additionally, the student is responsible for securing General and Professional Liability insurance coverage in amounts of at least $1,000,000 per occurrence and $3,000,000 annual aggregate if the student&rsquo;s institution does not provide the liability coverage. In addition to the application and other required forms, a non-refundable application fee of $100 and an administrative fee of $2,500 is required for the four-week international rotation at WFUSM. If interested, please contact the Office of Global Health for application information. Learner Health Responsibilities Will adhere to current institutional policies on masking and social distancing. Adhere to institutional, CDC and North Carolina state guidelines. Self-monitor for illness symptoms. Provide information as soon as possible about exposures that may affect patients, other students, faculty or staff at clinical facilities. Proceed as noted below for any suspected exposures. If a learner has a suspected illness or exposure: Learners will need to report potential workplace exposures and illness to our Employee Health Portal and will follow the guidance of the Student and Teammate Health staff from that point forward. If a learner is symptomatic: They must not report to the clinical area They should notify their preceptor They should report symptoms through the Employee Health Portal and follow the guidance of the Student and Teammate Health staff from that point forward. All visiting student fees and payments are non-refundable and non-transferable. Cancellation or withdrawals must be made at least 5 weeks prior to the clinical rotation start date. Medical students must withdraw their application in VSLO®. Visiting students must comply with Wake Forest University School of Medicine program- specific attendance policies and requirements. All Other Visiting Students Visiting PA student applications will be coordinated through Wake Forest University School of Medicine’s Comprehensive Learner Management Office ( PA Visiting Students to Wake Forest University School of Medicine ). Please contact CentralizedLearnerDeployment@wfusm.edu with questions. Visiting CRNA student applications flow through Contingent Workforce. Luci New, DNP, CRNA , in coordination with Comprehensive Learner Management, is the contact. Clinical “shadowing” opportunities for Wake Forest University School of Medicine degree program students may have case-by-case opportunities to participate in shadowing opportunities, if an identified supervising provider agrees to accept the student. The presence of the student must not result in a decrease in the number of learners a given department/program determined they could support during the academic year. “External” students (e.g., undergraduate students [except if a current Atrium Health Wake Forest Baptist employee], high school students) cannot be accommodated to participate in shadowing experiences at this time. With respect to school of medicine program students who might be applying for rotations at another institution, the program should consider the needs of their own students with respect to graduation requirements and understand the requirements and protocols in place at the potential receiving institution. Teacher-Learner Expectations Note about Research Opportunities at Wake Forest University School of Medicine Students undertaking research activities, must adhere to all policies and procedures of the school of medicine and to the guidelines set forth by departments and specific laboratories. Students should connect with faculty advisors as appropriate to maintain or initiate any student research activity. Sponsoring faculty are responsible for the safety of any students undertaking activities. Wake Forest University College students must also adhere to WFU’s “Protocol for the Safe Return of Undergraduates to Mentored Research and Scholarship Activities of Wake Forest Faculty” for your reference. Skip Sub Navigation MD Program Admissions Personnel MD Program Strategic Plan Prospective Students Contact Us Programs of Distinction MD Program Student Affairs Academic and Career Advising Student Involvement Undergraduate Medical Education Curriculum Committee Application Requirements and Technical Standards Charlotte Leadership and Staff Costs and Financial Aid PROJECT SEE: Screening Eyes and Education Class Profile Curriculum Overview Dean's Ambassadors Enrollment Requirements How to Apply Leadership Match Day 2026 Visiting Medical Students White Coat Ceremony MD Program Enrollment Services 336-716-4264 Email Hours: Mon - Fri, 9 am &ndash; 5 pm Location: Bowman Gray Center for Medical Education, 1 st Floor 475 Vine St. Winston-Salem, NC 27101 Mailing Address: Office of MD Admissions Wake Forest University School of Medicine PO Box 573183 Winston Salem, NC 27157 Connect with Wake Forest University School of Medicine Wake Forest University School of Medicine does not discriminate regardless of race, color, national origin, religion, gender, age, sexual preference, or physical or mental disability. Notice of Nondiscrimination NC Notice of Nondiscrimination SC Careers and Training Programs Newsroom Calendar Stay Connected Advocate Health About the School Education and Training Research Departments Campus and Community Life Academic Accreditation Student Right to Know Annual Crime and Fire Report Title IX Resources Alumni Application Hub Site Policies and Statements Social Media Participation Guidelines Conflict of Interest Report a Website Problem Language assistance services are available free of charge during your Wake Forest University School of Medicine visit. Select your language to learn more. Espa&ntilde;ol | العربیة | မြန်မာ | 简体中文 | دری | Fran&ccedil;ais | ગુજરાતી | Krey&ograve;l ayisyen | ကညီလံာ်ခီၣ်ထံး | 한국어 | ພາສາລາວ | नेपाली | Portugu&ecirc;s | Rom&acirc;nă | Русский | Kiswahili | ትግሪኛ | Українська | اردو | Tiếng Việt Disclaimer: All research and clinical material published by Wake Forest University School of Medicine on its site is for informational purposes only and SHOULD NOT be relied upon as a substitute for sound professional medical advice, evaluation or care from your physician or other qualified health care provider. Wake Forest University School of Medicine will not be liable for any direct, indirect, consequential, special, exemplary, or other damages arising therefrom. Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Bowman Gray Center for Medical Education, 475 Vine Street, Winston-Salem, NC 27101. All Rights Reserved.