Physician Observer Program | Cleveland Clinic Florida 877.463.2010 MyChart Need Help? Medical Professionals Giving Careers Search Search Cleveland Clinic Florida Menu Cleveland Clinic Florida Find a Provider Locations & Directions Patients & Visitors Health Library Institutes & Departments Appointments Visit clevelandclinic.org MyChart Need Help? Call for Additional Assistance 877.463.2010 Cleveland Clinic Florida Find a Provider Locations & Directions Patients & Visitors Health Library Institutes & Departments Appointments Visit clevelandclinic.org Home / For Medical Professionals / Education / Physician Observer Program Physician Observer Program Appointments & Access Contact Us Overview Specialties Opportunity for Latin American Physicians Application Process and Fees Program Information Contact Us Overview Overview Cleveland Clinic in Florida offers physicians from around the world the opportunity to observe our physicians and residents in practice. The Physician Observer Program provides insight into the day-to-day responsibilities of Cleveland Clinic physicians in their respective specialties. Federal regulations prevent observers from having patient care responsibilities or involvement in any form of volunteer research. For more information about Cleveland Clinic&rsquo;s Physician Observer Program in Florida, please email FlaObservers@ccf.org . Who is eligible? The Physician Observer Program is open to: Fully trained international physicians currently practicing abroad. International residents and fellows enrolled in a residency/fellowship program at a foreign institution and who are expected to graduate from that same institution. International medical students enrolled at an international medical school and who are expected to graduate from that same school after the prospective visit would take place. Medical students who are in the last year of medical school at the time of their application are not eligible. Eligible students who are in their final year of medical school may consider applying for the Elective Program . The Physician Observer Program is not designed for international medical graduates (IMG) residing in the United States or abroad, who intend to apply for residency or fellowship in the U.S. These applications will not be considered for this program. Processing fees will not be refunded for ineligible applications. *Visitors entering the U.S. with the following visa types are eligible to participate: B1, B2, F2, H4, J2, L2, O3 or ESTA. Visitors entering the U.S. with any other visa types are currently ineligible. A decision of acceptance or denial of any application for a Cleveland Clinic Physician Observer Program rests with Cleveland Clinic Education in Florida in its sole discretion. Applicants from countries or geographies that are subject to comprehensive sanctions by the United States will not be accepted. Applicants from certain other countries or geographies may be rejected in the Cleveland Clinic's sole discretion for other reasons, including but not limited to being named on a restricted list, being government officials of certain geographies, being from certain countries where Cleveland Clinic has business concerns about export control or intellectual property theft, or due to the burden of additional vetting requirements being too costly or time-consuming for the Cleveland Clinic Education in Florida to implement. At this time, Cleveland Clinic Education in Florida is not accepting applicants who are citizens of the following countries: Belarus, Cuba, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Russia, and Venezuela. Visitors planning on participating in another Cleveland Clinic education program, there needs to be at least 4 weeks between the programs. Each program has specific onboarding requirements, hence the time restriction. Specialties Specialties Anesthesia Breast Surgery Cardiology Cardio Thoracic Surgery Colorectal Surgery Critical Care/ICU Dermatology Endocrinology Gastroenterology General Surgery(MIS) Gynecology/MIS Gyn-Oncology Hematology & Oncology Infectious Disease Internal Medicine/Hospital Medicine Interventional Radiology Nephrology & Hypertension Neurology Neurosurgery Orthopedic Surgery Orthopedic Surgery: LATAM ORTHO CCF Otolaryngology Pathology Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Radiology Urogynecology Urology Vascular Medicine Note: availability may vary, and spaces are limited. Opportunity for Latin American Physicians Opportunity for Latin American Physicians Gerson Florez, MD, showing Cleveland Clinic Florida caregivers a presentation on rotator cuff repair Thanks to the generous support of our donors, Cleveland Clinic in Florida is pleased to offer Latin American (LATAM) physicians the opportunity to participate as Physician Observers in Orthopedic Surgery at our Martin Health and Weston hospital systems. Our Gracious Donors: Elizabeth B. Green Private Foundation &ndash; Tom Sawicz, Director Cleveland Clinic Catalyst Grant Arthrex-Southern Edge Orthopaedics Stryker Trauma & Extremities Zimmer Biomet One Gerson B. Florez, MD Peter J. Evans, MD, PhD Acumed&mdash;Southcoast Orthopedics This program is designed to break down financial barriers for LATAM physicians wishing to participate in our renowned Physician Observer Program. Funding is provided to cover essential costs, including: Round-trip travel from the physician&rsquo;s home country to Florida Lodging during the program Incidentals (e.g., meals at program functions) Note: While daily meals are the responsibility of the observer, meals provided during program events will be covered. A Comprehensive Learning Experience Physician Observers will be paired with an experienced Cleveland Clinic orthopedic mentor, allowing them to shadow both clinical and surgical duties. In addition to hands-on experience, participants will engage in a range of educational activities, including: Journal clubs Guest lectures Learning simulations Cadaver labs Physician observer rotations last four weeks. At the end of the rotation, observers will participate in a Virtual Guest Lectureship, presenting a topic developed during their time at Cleveland Clinic. Upon returning to their home institution, observers will have the opportunity to further refine their presentation and host a follow-up Virtual Guest Lectureship, demonstrating how the knowledge gained has enhanced their ability to improve patient care. Acknowledging Our Guest Lecturers We are grateful to the following experts for their dedication to our mission of education and mentorship: Rafael Diaz-Garcia, MD, MSHCM, FACS &ndash; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Baptist Health, Miami, FL Vilas Saldanha, MD, MBA &ndash; Texas Orthopaedics, Sports & Rehabilitation Associates, Austin, TX Carlos Higuera Rueda, MD &ndash; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Cleveland Clinic, Weston, FL Tammam Hanna, MD &ndash; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX Francisco L&oacute;pez-Gonz&aacute;lez, MD, FAAOS &ndash; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Puerto Rico School of Medicine-Medical Science Campus, San Juan, PR Sara L. Edwards, MD FAAOS &ndash; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA Claudio D&iacute;az Ledezma, MD, FAAOS &ndash; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA Martin Buttaro, MD &ndash; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hospital Italiano School of Medicine, Buenos Aires, Argentina Collaborative Learning and Research All program participants will collaborate on a manuscript for submission to a peer-reviewed journal, documenting the value of educational reciprocity and mentorship, and highlighting how programs like ours enhance the delivery of care. Additionally, throughout the program, physician observers will have the chance to develop and present a Grand Rounds session, demonstrating their findings on how mentorship and education improve patient outcomes. Eligibility Physicians from the following LATAM countries are eligible to apply: Argentina Belize Bolivia Brazil Chile Colombia Costa Rica Dominican Republic Ecuador El Salvador French Guiana Guatemala Guyana Honduras Mexico Nicaragua Panama Paraguay Peru Puerto Rico Suriname Uruguay We are looking for highly competitive candidates who demonstrate the following attributes: Proven excellence in their orthopedic residency program A genuine passion for patient care and the education of healthcare providers Early involvement in a research topic that could benefit from mentorship at Cleveland Clinic in Florida A strong interest in pursuing fellowship training A commitment to reciprocal care and collaborative projects between our programs Proficiency in multiple languages, with the ability to present in both English and other languages Apply Now If you are a physician from LATAM interested in applying for the program, please contact: Shirley Adames, Program Manager: adamess@ccf.org Gerson Florez, MD, Program Director: florezg@ccf.org Please Note: Physician Observer Program rotations begin the first Monday of the month and last for four weeks. Applications must be submitted and approved at least 60 days prior to the start of the rotation. Application Process and Fees Application Process and Fees The Physician Observer Program offers an orientation to Cleveland Clinic&rsquo;s model of health care excellence and teamwork in Florida. Application requirements and information Domestic Application Requirements: US Citizens and Permanent Residents only International Application Requirements: Visitors holding the following visa types are eligible to participate: B1, B2, F2, H4, J2, L2, O3 or ESTA. Visitors with any other visa types are currently ineligible. Apply using the links in the table below for the period you are applying for. Select the dates for the period you are applying for and include up to three specialty preferences . Rotation details: Each rotation begins on the first Monday of the month and lasts for four weeks. Rotations can be renewed for an additional four weeks with the supervising physician&rsquo;s approval. The maximum is three rotations per observer (12 weeks total). Submission guidelines: Only one application per period will be accepted. Additional applications for the same period will be automatically denied . Applications will not be accepted outside of the posted submission windows. You will be notified in writing either that your request has been accepted or that we cannot accommodate any of your three preferred choices. Final decisions will be provided based on the expected notification dates listed above. Current application windows Program Period Online Application Open Date Online Application Close Date Expected Notification of Final Decision Application 2026 Period 1: April to June 2026 November 1, 2025 December 31, 2025 February 15, 2026 CURRENTLY CLOSED 2026 Period 2: July to December 2026 December 1, 2025 January 31, 2026 March 15, 2026 CURRENTLY CLOSED 2027 Period 1: January to June 2027 June 1, 2026 July 31, 2026 September 15, 2026 CURRENTLY CLOSED 2027 Period 2: July to December 2027 December 1, 2026 January 31, 2027 March 15, 2027 CURRENTLY CLOSED Fees There is a $500 processing fee which is NON-REFUNDABLE. Note: The $500 processing fee covers any rotations scheduled within a 12-month period. Payments must be made through the electronic application system by the due date provided at the time of acceptance. In addition to the processing fee, we require a tuition fee of $400. This fee is to be paid via the electronic application system during the onboarding process, approximately 30 days prior to the start of your rotation. View our refund policy for details . If you have questions regarding the program, you may contact the Physician Observer Program Office at FlaObservers@ccf.org . Program Information Program Information Where to report This information will be sent to you in a confirmation letter prior to your start date. Identification badges At your orientation, you will receive a temporary photo ID badge. You must wear this badge at all times while on Cleveland Clinic in Florida premises. You will be required to return your badge at the end of your rotation. Failure to return badge will result in non-issuance of certificate and loss of the ability to rotate further at Cleveland Clinic in Florida. Dress code Observers are expected to dress in a professional manner. T-shirts, jeans, cutoffs, open-toe shoes, and other casual articles of clothing are not permitted. We recommend that you wear comfortable shoes. Observers must wear a plain white lab coat while on the premises of Cleveland Clinic in Florida. You will be responsible for bringing your own white lab coat. HIPAA privacy & confidentiality Observers are required to complete HIPPA training. This is found in your online onboarding modules. You will be required to sign and attest to a confidentiality agreement prior to your rotation acknowledging HIPPA training and understanding. Parking Parking is provided at no charge. Observers must register their cars (make, model, year, and license plate number) with Cleveland Clinic in Florida Security/Facilities by completing a form on the first day of orientation. When parking at Cleveland Clinic in Florida, you must display your temporary parking permit on your car&rsquo;s dashboard. Observers must park in the overflow parking lot (please refer to the parking map that you will receive on the first day of orientation). Working hours Clinic (outpatient) services are usually provided from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Hospital services vary in each department. Your department coordinator will assign your working hours. Meals You will be responsible for paying for your own meals. Cleveland Clinic Cafe, located on the 1st floor of the hospital, is open during the following hours: Monday &ndash; Friday: 7 a.m. &ndash; 10 a.m. &ndash; Hot Breakfast 11:30 a.m. &ndash; 3 p.m. &ndash; Lunch & Dinner Weekends & Holidays: 7 a.m. &ndash; 11:30 a.m. &ndash; Continental Breakfast 11:30 a.m. &ndash; 6 p.m. &ndash; Lunch & Dinner Housing Housing is not provided for observers. You will be responsible for your own accommodations. At your request, the program coordinator will provide you with a list of accommodations in the area. The list of accommodations provided is not affiliated with Cleveland Clinic. Cancellation policy Once your rotation has been confirmed by email, you are expected to complete it as scheduled. If cancellation is unavoidable, please submit your notification in writing at least 30 days before your rotation is scheduled to begin. Please be aware that your $500 application fee is non-refundable. Medical library The A. Lorraine and Sigmund Goldblatt Medical Library is located on the first floor of the clinic. The library is open Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. There is no after-hours access. We encourage you to bring a personal computer during rotations and enjoy a quiet and welcoming environment. Teaching conferences & postgraduate courses The following conferences are open to observers and visitors of Cleveland Clinic in Florida Medical grand rounds Noon &ndash; 1 p.m., every Wednesday Jagelman Conference Center Rooms 1-2 Surgical grand rounds 7 a.m. &ndash; 8 a.m., last Thursday of the month Jagelman Conference Center Rooms 1-2 Contact Us Contact Us General questions If you have questions about your rotation or if a problem arises, please contact the Education Institute and speak with the Physician Observer Coordinator. Cleveland Clinic in Florida reserves the right to terminate an observer&rsquo;s rotation at any time in the event that the observer&rsquo;s performance jeopardizes a patient&rsquo;s well-being or if the observer is unable to achieve the objectives of the educational experience. Further information Please contact the Department Education and Specialty programs for any additional information. FlaObservers@ccf.org Cleveland Clinic in Florida 2950 Cleveland Clinic Boulevard Weston, Florida 333311 We look forward to your rotation and hope your stay with us is an educationally rewarding one. Cleveland Clinic in Florida shall admit students of any race, color, religion, sex, age, national origins or ancestry, handicap, or status as a disabled or Vietnam veteran, to all rights, privileges, programs and activities generally accorded or made available to all of the students involved in any of the Clinic&rsquo;s educational programs. Cleveland Clinic in Florida will not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, nation origins or ancestry, handicap, or status as a disabled or military veteran, in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, training programs, stipend awards and all other such administrated programs. Cleveland Clinic Florida For Medical Professionals Education Community & Youth Programming Graduate Medical Education Simulation Center Health Professions Education Undergraduate Medical Education Program Physician Observer Program Continuing Medical Education Visiting Residents & Fellows Pharmacy Residency Program Appointments & Access Contact Us Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Actions Appointments Pay Your Bill Price Transparency Financial Assistance Accepted Insurance Make a Donation Newsletter Refer a Patient Phone Directory Events Blog, News & Apps Consult QD Health Essentials Newsroom Mobile Apps MyChart About Cleveland Clinic in Florida About Us Awards & Recognition Careers Publications Resources For Medical Professionals Site Information & Policies Send Us Feedback Site Map Copyright, Reprint & Licensing Website Terms of Use Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices Non-Discrimination and Availability Visitation Policy 2950 Cleveland Clinic Blvd. Weston, FL 33331 | 866.293.7866 | &copy; 2026 Cleveland Clinic. All Rights Reserved.