Observership Program | Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center Skip to Main Content Menu Give Resources TTUHSC Home Programs Campuses Research Administration Human Resources Library Accreditation Emergency Preparedness Info for... Current Students Prospective Students Faculty/Staff Residents Patient Care Alumni & Giving Professional Education Visitors Give Give to TTUHSC School of Medicine Search the Site Submit Site Search Start typing, then use the up and down arrows to select an option from the list About Programs Admissions Departments Funding Your Education Contact Us Observership Program Home School of Medicine Internal Medicine Observership Program Home Welcome Leadership Administration Chiefs & Vice Chairs Divisions & Centers Faculty Education Internal Medicine Residency Cardiology Fellowship Clinical Cardiac Electrophysiology Fellowship Gastroenterology Fellowship Hematology/Oncology Fellowship Infectious Disease Fellowship Interventional Cardiology Fellowship Nephrology Fellowship Pulmonary/Critical Care Fellowship MS3 Clerkship MS4 Clerkship Observership Program Research & Laboratories Research The Southwest Respiratory and Critical Care Chronicles Tropical Medicine and Infectious Diseases Contact Us Patient Information Enhance Your Learning and Exposure Apply Now » The Department of Internal Medicine is pleased to offer avid learners the opportunity to shadow our team during work rounds to enhance their learning and exposure to Internal Medicine. This is a hands-off shadowing experience, as per policy set forth by Texas Tech School of Medicine. Learners will have the opportunity to observe medicine physician's interaction with patients (with the patient's permission), engaging in thoughtful discussion of clinical cases, reviewing medical literature, enhancing clinical knowledge, and experiencing teamwork involved in care for our patients with opportunities of scholarly activities. This program is designed for individuals who are graduates from an approved medical school and aspire to participate in a learning experience. Information for Applicants Overview Objectives Availability Onboarding Submission Requirements Application submission are reviewed on a first-come, first-served basis. While we ask for date preference, it is likely that upon approval you will be emailed dates that are available. Preference listing does not guarantee you will receive those dates. All documents and payments must be received by the program by the deadlines. ECFMG certificate or Step 1 and Step 2 scores submitted with your application or LCME Accredited Medical School Diploma. Individuals who wish to participate in this learning experience should apply online . Please have the following documents ready to submit with your application: Current CV/Resume * ECFMG certificate and/or Completion of Step 1 and Step 2 Headshot (for badging purposes)* Letter of Recommendation* Medical School Transcript (Unofficial copy is sufficient)* COVID Vaccine (copy of immunization card) USMLE score reports* * indicates this document is required at time of the application submission. All others without an * are required to be uploaded to your application at least 4 weeks prior to the start of your observership start date. Application and Association Fees Non-refundable application fee upon approval - $250. Criminal Background Check - Varies per individual, typically around $100. Observership Fee Four week - $2,000 Eight week - $3,800 To familiarize learners with the U.S. medical system. To become proficient in presentation of patients on daily rounds. To gain experience working in a multidisciplinary healthcare team. To learn how to interpret basic lab tests and radiology data such as blood, urine serum, X-rays, etc. General Internal Medicine Subspecialties Nephrology Infectious Diseases Pulmonary/Critical Care After you receive the email stating that your observership is approved: An email will be sent that includes the approved dates (not always the same as what you requested) and a link to pay the application fee. Applicant should confirm dates, by replying to the imobservership@ttuhsc.edu email address and make the application fee payment by deadline. Once application fee is received, the below steps occur. Once application fee is received and dates confirmed (step 1), observer will receive an confirmation email that includes, background check link, payment link, onboarding documents (passport or social, badge & parking form, and notification of any other missing documents needed. Completion of the background check should be done immediately and documents and observership are due on or before deadlines. This email will also include how and when to report to begin observership and other accommodation information for your convenience. CBC clearance report, Observer fee, and onboarding documents should be received by the deadline before you can begin your observership. Facilities Below are the three facilities that the observer access during their observership with the department. Each of these facilities are teaching facilities and/ academic facilities used by GME programs in Lubbock, Texas but they are all connected physically so travel and transportation is not required. Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center University Medical Center Texas Tech Physician - Internal Medicine Participation Policy & Procedure All Learners Shall not begin their learning experience until approved by Observation and Learning Experience or one of the partnering areas listed below: SOM – GME office shall onboard all postgraduates for observations. Will be assigned a sponsor or preceptor that is a current, active TTUHSC employee and is not a relative. Learners subject to US visa requirements or restrictions may only participate in experiences during the approved dates listed on their valid official visa documents. Shall be subject to TTUHSC policies and procedures, and to applicable federal, state, and local laws that may apply to their activities. Shall wear their identification badge and companion badge at all times during their learning experience. Observers Shall be 16 years of age or an individual who is at least 14 years of age and is affiliated with an educational program approved by Observation and Learning Experience for observation experiences. Shall be 16 years of age to enter an operating room (OR) and the Emergency Department (ED). Shall not participate in more than two observation experience exceeding 8 weeks in duration unless approved by SOM, GME and Observership Program Director. Shall not engage in activities other than observing/shadowing. Shadowing does not include the following: Direct patient care; Hospital or ambulatory clinic privileges; Providing consultation or advice related to patient care; and Performing work related activities. Got Questions? We're here to help. Contact us if you have questions. We do not accept applications via e-mail. If you wish to participate in an Observership with us, please complete your application via this link . Quick Links Sitemap Title IX Clery Annual Report Emergency Preparedness Equal Opportunity Accessibility Open Record Requests TTUHSC Energy Conservation Report Texas Tech University System Texas Tech University TTUHSC El Paso Angelo State University Midwestern State University State of Texas Website Compact with Texans Statewide Search (TRAIL) Online Institutional Resumes Site Policies, Manuals and State Reporting Texas Homeland Security SAO Fraud Reporting DMCA Compliance Fraud and Misconduct Hotline Texas Veterans Portal Mental Health Resources Campus Carry Translate a TTUHSC Page Contact Maps & Directions Jobs at TTUHSC Contact TTUHSC Site Policies Privacy Notice Website Update Request Media Inquiries Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center 3601 4th Street, Lubbock TX 79430 T: 806.743.1000 &copy; 2025 TTUHSC Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter Youtube ©