International Observerships | Baptist Health South Florida Skip to main content Back to Baptist Health Back to Baptist Health Need Help? Call 1-786-596-2373 Espa&ntilde;ol Careers Giving Pay a Bill Sign In to My Account Baptist Health South Florida International Services Menu Search Contact Us Update Your Preferred Location Select your preferred location for care to help us show doctors and facilities that are conveniently located near you. ZIP Code Use precise location Precise location unavailable, please enable location in your browser settings or enter a Zip Code manually Remember my location Update Location Back Close Search Sign In to My Account Español International Patients Open Drawer International Patients Why Choose Baptist Health Services for International Patients Electronic Second Medical Opinions Executive Health Accepted Insurance Preparing for Your Visit International Healthcare Professionals Open Drawer International Healthcare Professionals Conferences and Continuing Medical Education International Observerships International Collaborations Refer a Patient Pay a Bill Call 1-786-596-2373 Careers Giving Close Main Menu International Services International Healthcare Professionals International Observerships International Observerships Section Navigation International Healthcare Professionals Conferences and Continuing Medical Education International Observerships International Collaborations Refer a Patient Observer Program Approved participants in the International Medical Education Program receive strong clinical experience as well as a basic overview of the American medical system as practiced at Baptist Health. The program includes: Medical symposiums International observership program for physicians and healthcare professionals from Latin America and the Caribbean. Continuing medical education including: video conferences, live webcasts and self-study courses. Tours of Baptist Health South Florida facilities. Baptist Health is unable to sponsor visas for participants of this program. If you are not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, complete the International Eligibility Form and return it to International@BaptistHealth.net prior to completing a program application. Please indicate &ldquo;International Observer&rdquo; in the email subject line. For additional information, please contact us at International@BaptistHealth.net , or 786-596-2373 . Baptist Health South Florida Copyright © 2026 Baptist Health South Florida. All Rights Reserved. HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Accessibility Statement | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Sitemap Language Preference / Preferencia de idioma I want to see the site in English Continue In English Quiero ver el sitio en Español Continuar en español I want to save my language preference for the future We use cookies to give you the best possible experience. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our use of cookies. Please review our Privacy Policy to learn more. Accept Want to finish this later? If you’d like to complete this appointment request form later, we can save your responses for 48 hours so you can come back and finish your submission. Prefer to talk to a member of our team? We’re here to help. Call 786-596-2000 . Email me a reminder Email Address Save Responses Close