University of Kansas Medical Center Skip to main content. School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search keywords, names, etc... Search within this section Search all sites Academics Research Patient Care Outreach Student Life About Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for kumc.edu Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Academics Academics Prepare for your health care career with top-ranked programs, state-of-the-art facilities and unmatched opportunities for clinical training. Admissions & Aid Degree Programs International Education Clinical Education Interprofessional Education Libraries Student Handbooks Related Links: School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing Research Research Explore world-class research programs that advance the health sciences and attract national recognition. Research Centers & Institutes Cores, Facilities and Shared Resources Basic Science Departments Research Administration Human Research Protection Program Scheduling Research Facilities Research News Related Links: KU Experts KU Center for Technology Commercialization Core Showcase Summer Research Training Program Student Research Forum Patient Care Patient Care As an academic medical center, we work with The University of Kansas Health System and other regional partners to provide high-quality, compassionate clinical care. The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Student-Run Clinics Clinical Education University and Faculty Practice Outreach Outreach We build partnerships throughout the state to find new ways to improve the lives of Kansans. Our community-based efforts extend across the country and around the world. Social Impact Rural Education Global Health Career Development Community Programs Outreach News Patient Care Related Links: Community Engagement Masonic Cancer Alliance Student Life Student Life Our three campus communities offer unique social events and cultural attractions—the perfect backdrop to our world-class education programs. Student Support Activities & Events Our Campuses Wellness Why Kansas? Related Links: Office of Student Life Impact & Belonging Office of International Programs About About The University of Kansas Medical Center's mission is to improve lives and communities in Kansas and beyond through innovation in education, research and health care. Our Campuses Wellness Leadership KU Medical Center Fast Facts Events Calendar Maps & Contact Information News Careers Make a Gift With top-tier training programs and groundbreaking research, we build healthier communities in Kansas and beyond. Interprofessional Collaboration At KU Medical Center, your continual interaction with students and faculty from our various programs will enhance and enrich your experience. 25+ programs, including nationally ranked graduate programs School of Health Professions School of Health Professions Nationally ranked departments that integrate education, scientific discovery & clinical programs School of Medicine School of Medicine Providing top faculty, state-of-the-art technology & clinical experiences in diverse practice settings School of Nursing School of Nursing Nine programs ranked in top 50 among public universities 25+ Research centers & institutes 21 accredited residency programs 1,500+ Dedicated and experienced faculty Latest News Why I Chose Medicine: 2026 KU School of Medicine graduates reflect on their path Why I Chose Healthcare: 2026 KU School of Health Professions graduates share what drives them Research continues for cystic fibrosis patients not helped by breakthrough drugs KU Medical Center to receive $5 million from state legislature to build Kansas Brain Health Assessment Network See all news Latest News Why I Chose Nursing: 2026 KU School of Nursing graduates share their passion. " > Read the full story > Find your passion. Choose your path. With a variety of academic programs and state-of-the-art learning environments, KU Medical Center provides the ideal academic experience to meet your goals and prepare for your future in health care. Let's Get Started Our partners in education & health care Kansas’ flagship research-focused university with a community that extends across the globe. KU pushes the boundaries of knowledge, transforms the academic experience, and creates solutions through innovative research, united by more than 150 years of tradition and by our commitment to creating a better world. KU.EDU The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Health System in Kansas City is part of a world-class academic medical center and destination for complex care and diagnosis. The health system offers more options for patients with serious conditions, provided by a team with expertise and leadership in medical research and education. These physicians are expanding the boundaries of medical knowledge and discovering life-changing treatments of the future. kansashealthsystem.com The University of Kansas Cancer Center The University of Kansas Cancer Center is on an urgent journey to break the devastating grip of cancer. We are the only National Cancer Institute-designated cancer center in the region, and 1 of only 71 in the nation, to receive this elite distinction. kucancercenter.org Our partners in education & health care Ingeniux.Runtime.CMSElement Ingeniux.Runtime.CMSElement KU.EDU Ingeniux.Runtime.CMSElement Ingeniux.Runtime.CMSElement kansashealthsystem.com Ingeniux.Runtime.CMSElement Ingeniux.Runtime.CMSElement kucancercenter.org Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab &copy; 2026 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university&rsquo;s programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and procedures and is the Title IX Coordinator for all KU and KUMC campuses: Associate Vice Chancellor for the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu , Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY. Reports can be submitted by contacting the Title IX Coordinator as provided herein or using the Title IX online report form and complaints can be submitted with the Title IX Coordinator or using the Title IX online complaint form . Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.