Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Residency Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program | Infirmary Health Open Accessibility Menu Skip to Content Skip to Menu Increase Text Size Clear All Hide Search Contact Menu About Us Patient Portals Contact Us Give Now Search Search Services Allergy & Immunology Antimicrobial Stewardship Program Cancer Care Heart & Vascular Institute Corporate Wellness Critical Care Medicine Emergency Medicine Endocrinology Family Medicine Fitness Centers Gastroenterology Hematology & Oncology Hospitalists Imaging & Diagnostic Services Inpatient Therapy Internal Medicine In-Home Healthcare Laboratory Services Long Term Acute Care Mental Health & Substance Abuse Neuroscience Center of Excellence OB/GYN Occupational Health Ophthalmology Orthopaedics Outpatient Therapy Services Pain Management Palliative Care Pediatrics Pharmacy Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Primary Care Pulmonology Rehabilitation Services Rheumatology Robotics Senior Behavioral Health Sleep Medicine Sports Medicine Stroke Surgery Telemedicine Thoracic Surgery Weight Loss Surgery Women's Health Wound Care Doctors Locations Patients & Visitors Classes & Events Community Financial Assistance Gift Shops Guest Information HIM (Medical Records) Maps MyIHChart & Bill Pay News & Education Pastoral Services Patient Safety Send an eCard HIPAA/Patient Privacy Infirmary Health Viva Medicare Advantage Residencies & Fellowships Careers Top Jobs Work Locations Physician Opportunities Graduate Education Nursing Graduates Undergraduate Nursing Students Therapy Students NextGen Docs Foundations Infirmary Foundation North Baldwin Infirmary Foundation Thomas Hospital Foundation 251-435-2400 Find a Doctor Find a Location Careers Graduate Education Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Residency Visiting Observer Learning ... Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program Thank you for your interest in the Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program offered through the Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Residency Program. This unique educational experience is designed for medical observers seeking to gain valuable exposure to the practice of medicine in the United States. Through this program, participants will have the opportunity to shadow faculty and residents , observe the day-to-day operations of a U.S. clinical setting, and deepen their understanding of internal medicine. Observers will: Be assigned to a Faculty Physician for direct observation and mentorship. Have a Resident Mentor assigned for the duration of the observership. Witness physical examinations and clinical workflows Participate in case discussions and diagnostic reasoning (observational only) Attend daily educational sessions, including morning report and teaching rounds Have an end-of-observership meeting with program leadership to review the experience of the visiting observer program Please Note: This program is strictly observational . Medical observers will not have any direct contact with patients or engage in clinical care activities. Hands-on training, diagnosis, treatment, or any form of patient communication is not permitted. We look forward to supporting your learning journey and helping you gain meaningful insights into U.S. clinical practice. *Note: Participation in the Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program does not guarantee an invitation for a residency program interview. Invitations to interview are provided at the discretion of Mobile Internal Medicine Residency program. Before submitting an application to the Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program, please review the following eligibility requirements carefully. Eligibility Requirements Recent international medical graduates (MD or equivalent, such as MBBS). International medical students who will have graduated prior to the start date of the observership. Note: 4th-year international medical students who are still enrolled in medical school are not eligible to apply. A copy of your medical diploma or equivalent, translated into English. A final academic transcript, also translated into English. Proof of passing USMLE Step 1. Observerships are offered for either 2 weeks or 4 weeks. English Language Proficiency Applicants must demonstrate proficiency in English through one of the following: Internet-Based TOEFL (iBT): Minimum total score of 100, with at least 22 in the speaking section. Paper-Based TOEFL: Minimum score of 600. *Note: The TOEFL requirement is waived if English is your first language or if you have met the communication skills requirement for ECFMG certification through the 2025 Pathways . Fees A non-refundable application fee of $100.00 USD is required. Payment must be made by check or money order from a U.S. funding source . Make checks or money orders payable to: Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Program Send payment via shipping carrier (e.g., FedEx, UPS, DHL) to: Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Residency Program 1720 Springhill Avenue, Suite 202, Mobile, AL 36607 Email tracking information to: mobile.imresidency@infirmaryhealth.org Subject line: Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program Application Fee &ndash; [Applicant Name] *Note: Payment of the application fee does not guarantee acceptance into the program. Fees A non-refundable application fee of $100.00 USD is required. Payment must be made by check or money order from a U.S. funding source . Make checks or money orders payable to: Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Program Send payment via shipping carrier (e.g., FedEx, UPS, DHL) to: Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Residency Program 1720 Springhill Avenue, Suite 202, Mobile, AL 36607 Email tracking information to: mobile.imresidency@infirmaryhealth.org Subject line: Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program Application Fee &ndash; [Applicant Name] *Note: Payment of the application fee does not guarantee acceptance into the program. Observership Fees 2-week slot : $2,250 USD Fees are due upon notification of acceptance into the program, you will be notified directly by the residency program office on the process to submit your observership fees. Cancellation Policy All cancellations must be submitted in writing via email to mobile.imresidency@infirmaryhealth.org at least 60 days before the start of the observership. Refund Terms Cancellation > 90 days before start date Full refund of observership fee (minus administrative/processing fees) only in cases of Visa refusal by the U.S. Embassy. Proper proof of registration and proof of refusal must be submitted. Cancellation > 60 days before start date 50% refund of observership fee (minus administrative/processing fees). Cancellation < 60 days before start date No refund will be provided. No Refund Will Be Given If: You fail to respond to emails or miss required deadlines. You choose not to participate or drop out of the program. Notification of non-participation is received on or after the observership start date. Unacceptable behavior is exhibited&mdash;Mobile Infirmary reserves the right to withdraw your participation without refund. *Note: Participation in the Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program does not guarantee an invitation for a residency program interview. Invitations to interview are provided at the discretion of Mobile Internal Medicine Residency program. Application Specifics To prepare for applications opening, prospective medical observers must be ready to submit the following required documents via the online application using this link: https://form.jotform.com/250694820729162 All documents must be compiled into one (1) PDF file in the order listed below: Required Documentation Personal Statement Current Curriculum Vitae (CV) Copy of Medical Diploma or MD equivalent (must be in English) Two Letters of Recommendation Should be written by a physician familiar with your clinical abilities and career goals Letters must be emailed separately to: Mobile.IMResidency@infirmaryhealth.org USMLE Step 1 Score Report (Required) Final Transcript (must be in English) Photograph / Headshot Copy of Current Unexpired B1/B2 Visa or EAD Biographical Page of Passport Copy of Immunization Record Proof of Current PPD (TB Test) Copy of COVID-19 Vaccination Card Copy of Flu Vaccination Documentation TOEFL Test Score Report or OET Statement of Results Proof of Payment of the International Visiting Medical Observers Program application fee Submission Submit completed application with required documentation by the deadlines indicated in the academic year timeline. The residency program office will begin reviewing applications and promptly make decisions on the first of the month following the application deadline. *Note : Applications received after the submission deadline may not be reviewed by the residency program office. Acceptance Medical Observers accepted in the Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program will be notified via email from the residency program office and must successfully complete all post-acceptance requirements and adhere to all Mobile Infirmary Medical Center policies, including, but not limited to background checks, immunizations, and required documentation. Post Acceptance Documentation includes: Completed Student Intake Form Observer Orientation Manual Review Infirmary Health System (IHS) Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) and submit completed Ineligibility Certification (IA) Form Signed Adult Observer Acknowledgment Form *Failure to complete or adhere to any post-acceptance requirements will result in the cancellation of the observership *Note: Participation in the Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program does not guarantee an invitation for a residency program interview. Invitations to interview are provided at the discretion of Mobile Internal Medicine Residency program. Important Information Observership fees are non-negotiable Fees do not include housing, transportation, or meals. Observership fee amounts are subject to change without prior notice All applicants will receive either an acceptance or denial email. Decisions are final and non-reversible. All communication will be conducted via direct email . Please ensure the correct email address is included in your application. Rejected applications are not eligible for resubmission. Observership slots are limited. If unacceptable behavior is exhibited by any international visiting medical observer, we reserve the right to withdraw the international visiting medical observer&rsquo;s acceptance in the program with no refund given. *Note: Participation in the Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program does not guarantee an invitation for a residency program interview. Invitations to interview are provided at the discretion of Mobile Internal Medicine Residency program. Related Doctors Jonathan T. Miller, MD Internal Medicine Mobile Infirmary 5 Mobile Infirmary Circle Mobile, AL, 36607 (251) 435-2400 View Profile Heather Castleberry, MD Family Medicine Eastern Shore Family Practice 27961 US HWY 98 Daphne, AL, 36526 (251) 626-1175 View Profile John McDuff, MD Internal Medicine Coastal Medical Group | East 300 S Greeno Road Fairhope, AL, 36532 (251) 929-3424 View Profile Hayden Gunn, MD Internal Medicine Infirmary Hospitalists 3 Mobile Infirmary Circle, Ste 308 Mobile, AL, 36607 View Profile Grayson Saville, MD Family Medicine Diagnostic & Medical Clinic | Daphne 9570 US-90 Daphne, AL, 36526 (251) 625-8223 View Profile Damian J. Collins, MD Internal Medicine Diagnostic & Medical Clinic 1700 Springhill Avenue Mobile, AL, 36604 (251) 435-1200 View Profile Paul Watkins, MD Family Medicine Infirmary Hospitalists 188 Hospital Drive, Suite 303-A Fairhope, AL, 36532 (251) 279-1920 View Profile Brittney Bicksler, DO Family Medicine, Obstetrics North Baldwin Family Medicine & Obstetrics 2002 Medical Center Drive Bay Minette, AL, 36507 (251) 937-5377 View Profile Crystal Dorriety, CRNP Internal Medicine Diagnostic & Medical Clinic 1700 Springhill Avenue Mobile, AL, 36604 (251) 435-1200 View Profile Patricia L. Burch, MD Internal Medicine Diagnostic & Medical Clinic 1700 Springhill Avenue Mobile, AL, 36604 (251) 435-1200 View Profile View All Related Blogs Mobile Infirmary Launches New ... Featured, Mobile Infirmary, an affiliate of Infirmary Health, has received accreditation from the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) ... Continue Reading Mobile Infirmary Welcomes the ... Mobile Infirmary, an affiliate of Infirmary Health, welcomed their second class of Internal Medicine residents on Match Day 2025. Physician residency ... Continue Reading Making Rounds with Infirmary ... Dr. Charles Mansour, a PGY-3 Internal Medicine Resident at Thomas Hospital, and Dr. Johao Escobar, a PGY-1 Internal Medicine Resident at Mobile ... Continue Reading Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine ... The Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Residency Program is proud to partner with a local non-profit healthcare organization, Victory Health Partners. ... Continue Reading Making Rounds on Fox10 News: The ... Dr. Brittany Mock, board-certified attending physician with the Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Clinic recently joined Fox10 News to discuss the ... Continue Reading Mobile Infirmary welcomes inaugural ... Mobile Infirmary, an affiliate of Infirmary Health, welcomed their inaugural class of Internal Medicine residents on Match Day 2024. Physician ... Continue Reading Mobile Infirmary announces internal ... Mobile, Ala. – Mobile Infirmary, an affiliate of Infirmary Health, has received approval by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education ... Continue Reading / View All Mobile Infirmary Internal Medicine Residency Internal Medicine Residency Program Leadership Faculty Internal Medicine Residents Prospective Applicants Residency Tracks Educational Structure Continuity Clinic Life on Mobile Bay Salary & Benefits Visiting Student Audition Rotation Program Visiting Observer Learning Opportunity Program Give Now 5 Mobile Infirmary Circle Mobile , AL 36607 (251) 435-2400 About Us Patients & Visitors Careers Services Residencies Foundations Doctors Classes & Events Patient Portals Locations News Center For Physicians Contact Us Non-Discrimination Notice of Availability Privacy Practices Price Transparency Conscience and Religious Nondiscrimination Notice x ⚠ Your browser is out of date. To get the full experience of this website, please update to most recent version. Update My Browser Copyright &copy; 2026 Site Map Privacy Policy