College of Medicine – Tucson | College of Medicine - Tucson Skip to main content Search search Internal Resources Accreditation, Quality & Analytics Academy of Medical Education Scholars Brand Communications Curricular Affairs Faculty Affairs Graduate Medical Education Kindness Is Good Medicine Leadership Directory Professionalism Professionalism Kindness Is Good Medicine Brand Communications search Search menu Menu home Home close Close Search search Main Menu About chevron_right Education chevron_right Research News Alumni & Donors chevron_right Events chevron_right Calendar Directory Careers Give Main navigation About About Departments & Centers Basic Science Departments Basic Science Departments Cellular and Molecular Medicine Chemistry and Biochemistry Immunobiology Pharmacology Physiology Clinical Departments Clinical Departments Anesthesiology Dermatology Emergency Medicine Family and Community Medicine Department of Medicine Neurology Neurosurgery Obstetrics and Gynecology Ophthalmology and Vision Science Orthopaedic Surgery Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Pediatrics Psychiatry Radiation Oncology Radiology and Imaging Sciences Surgery Urology Leadership Education Degree Programs Degree Programs MD Program Dual-Degree MD Programs MS and PhD Programs Undergraduate Non-Degree Courses Residencies & Fellowships Residencies & Fellowships Current Residents and Fellows Prospective Residents & Fellows Visiting Residents & Fellows Community Education Financial Aid Research News Alumni & Donors Support the College Alumni Fuel Wonder Fuel Wonder Comprehensive Cardiovascular Institute Student Success Valley Fever Center Events Events Research Day Student Milestones Student Milestones White Coat Match Day Convocation Calendar College of Medicine – Tucson Advancing the health and wellness of our community and beyond, in the pursuit of excellence, through relentless innovation across our tripartite mission of education, research and patient care. MD Program MD Dual-Degree Programs Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs Residencies & Fellowships “There is a revolution coming to health care, and I want to be at the forefront of it.” – Alexandra Miller, MD/PhD student Image How Will You Fuel Wonder? Leaders in Scientific Discovery The University of Arizona is one of the nation’s Top 20 public research universities, and research grant funding at the College of Medicine – Tucson has been growing consistently, more than doubling in a five-year period. The true value of medical research isn’t only measured in dollars. It is ultimately measured in discoveries that impact people’s lives. We’re educating and training the next generation of investigators, who will change lives by making new discoveries and pushing today’s medical advances even further. Explore Patient Care Patient care has been an integral part of the College of Medicine – Tucson since its founding more than 55 years ago. Today, we work with clinical partners, including Banner Health and the Southern Arizona VA Health Care System, that operate hospitals and clinics throughout Arizona. These partnerships allow for a seamless integration of clinical faculty who work in area hospitals and clinics. In addition to teaching medical students, training residents and fellows, and caring for patients, many clinical faculty members — including some of the best minds in medicine — have subspecialty expertise and conduct groundbreaking research that is cited in top medical publications and translated into real-world therapies that improve lives. Banner Health Arizona VA Health Care System News Thursday Using data to untangle the relationship between chronic pain and depression Read more Image April 24, 2026 Passions for women’s preventive health and tackling the primary care shortage fuel a physician’s research program Read more Image March 23, 2026 Future physicians celebrate Match Day, look forward to next chapter in medical careers Read more Image Feb. 12, 2026 From loops to labs: How a bike group spurred a scientific collaboration Read more Job Opportunities at the College of Medicine – Tucson Why Arizona? Why Banner Health? Start Your Career Today! Prospective Faculty College of Medicine – Tucson Leading the Way in Education, Research and Patient Care Your support helps prepare our students for the myriad of complex health issues they will one day see. It also enables us to recruit exceptional faculty talent to perform groundbreaking research and provide outstanding medical training and patient care. Gifts to the College of Medicine – Tucson Strategic Plan 1.5 Progress Report 1.4 State of the College Annual Report Footer - Main Employment Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Campus Safety Copyright Campus Accessibility Contact Us Feedback Information For Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Donors Parents & Visitors Corporations & Businesses Topics About the University Academics Arts & Museums Athletics & Recreation Campus Store Colleges, Schools, Departments Environment & Sustainability International Engagement Health & Medical Libraries Research & Innovation Purpose, Mission & Values Resources Directory Calendars Campus Map News Phonebook Weather Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples . Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. The university strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy &copy; 2026 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona . keyboard_arrow_up Back to top