International Visiting Student Program | International Visiting Student Program | Stanford Medicine Skip to Content Stanford Medicine International Visiting Student Program Site Nav Menu Visiting Clerkships Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Neuroscientist Michelle Monje awarded MacArthur 'genius grant' Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Community engagement Lane Library Student resources Education News Alice L. Walton School of Medicine and Stanford Medicine host AI conference on community health Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Close menu Close menu International Visiting Student Program Stanford University School of Medicine International Visiting Student (IVS) Program! The IVS Program is one of many programs with a goal of adding value to elective clerkships by exposing students to an international perspective on medicine. The IVS Program compliments Stanford Medicine’s mission to increase global impact and improve cross-cultural education. Program participants can apply for a 2-week ( limited offerings ) or 4-week elective rotation, up to a maximum of 8-week elective rotation. The participant will receive an E-valuation from the elective clerkship at the end of the rotation, and can order an official transcript at the end of the Quarter the rotation was taken in. The IVS Program DOES NOT GRANT Letters of Recommendations at the conclusion of the attended elective clerkship. The IVS Program asks that students should not request an LOR from the Attendings and/or Residents. ( Helpful Hint ) A two, four, or eight week elective clerkship rotation of visiting students does not provide the breadth of evaluative information required by Recommenders to write an LOR on behalf of the visiting student. All clerkships are scheduled by the School of Medicine Registrar's Office. Since Stanford medical students have priority to take elective clerkships that are open to visitors, visiting international students are only scheduled during a specified time each quarter. Visit the IVS - Frequently Asked Application Questions page before beginning your online application submittal. Find your area of interest below to access detailed information and resources. Expand All Eligibility Students applying to participate in the IVS Program must be in their final year of medical school . Most international medical schools' MD degree programs range from four to six years. By comparison in the U.S., generally, 4 th year students are considered to be in their final year of medical school. IVS applicants are encouraged to consult their Academic Advisors to determine when their final years' are in their medical school education. To be eligible for the IVS Program, you must currently be enrolled in a medical school that is part of a university. If you already hold an MD degree or its equivalent, you are not eligible to apply to the IVS Program. Carefully read the IVS Admission Qualifications & Requirements before applying for participation. Application Fee, Tuition, & Document Fee Application Fee A non-refundable Application Fee of $300 US Dollars is due via SlideRoom, the online application portal, when you submit your application. Payment is processed using a credit card. Tuition Tuition is due when your application is approved by the specific clerkship and you are officially scheduled in an elective clerkship by the School of Medicine Registrar's Office. Approved applications are only scheduled if there is an available clerkship rotation spot. Note that the maximum clerkship rotation Period allowed for IVS Program participation is 8 weeks and tuition is accessed accordingly. $3,100 US Dollars for a 2 week elective (limited clerkships) $6,200 US Dollars for a 4 week elective $12,400 US Dollars for two 4 week electives (limited clerkships) Tuition does not cover the following items associated with your IVS Program application and participation: application fee (via SlideRoom) criminal background check (via Certiphi Screening) document fee (see further description below) personal health insurance (during elective rotation) professional malpractice/liability insurance (during elective rotation) required immunizations respiratory mask fit test Tuition cost is subject to change annually per Stanford’s academic calendar. The Stanford IVS Program does not process tuition waivers and is not associated with any scholarship funds . Document Fee Stanford charges a one-time Document Fee of $250 US Dollars to all students. The fee is paid only once, regardless of the number of degrees a student may ultimately pursue. The fee is assessed as part of the students' tuition bill after enrollment. The Document Fee covers the cost of a variety of university administrative services such as enrollment and degree certification, course drops and adds done before published deadlines, diplomas, official transcripts and their production, and credential files. Travel to the United States Note: IVS Program participants are not employed by Stanford University and are not considered part of a student exchange program. Stanford Medicine does not provide any information for the student to secure a visa to travel to the U.S. IVS Program participants may require visa for entry into the United States. Understanding and meeting all requirements for travel documents, such as a passport and securing a visa to visit the United States, are the student’s responsibility. Visa requirements are determined by the U.S. Department of State – Bureau of Consular Affairs . Please conduct your visa requirement research thoroughly. Stanford is not able to provide advice regarding student's visa requirements or their visa status. Temporary Housing Stanford Medicine does not provide housing for IVS Program participants. Students must make their own accommodation arrangements. When accessing online resources, be aware of online scams! The Better Business Bureau (BBB) provides some helpful tips to assist in avoiding scam artists. Additional information can be found on the BBB Scam Tips under " Rental Scam ". Conduct your research responsibly and with caution. Below are some online resources that advertise available housing. Research carefully before making a commitment. Stanford Medicine does not endorse, nor is it affiliated with these resources: SU Post (online bulletin board - Not run by Stanford) Places4Students *(Stanford’s rental listing partner) Rotating Room (recommended by the AAMC) Furnished Finder (monthly furnished rentals) Apartments.com (includes mostly large complexes) Hotpads (map-based housing search site) PadMapper (map-based housing search site) Trulia (online residential real-estate site) RentCafe.com (map-based housing search site) Sharon Green Apartments Other housing resource for consideration: Oak Creek Apartments Transportation Students are responsible for coordinating their transportation to and from their elective clerkship location. Here are links to local public transporation and alternatives: Options for commuting by bicycle Bike routes & maps Marguerite Shuttle is Stanford’s Free Shuttle Service Shuttle lines & schedules Caltrain is a commuter rail service that runs along the San Francisco Peninsula. Riders can connect to the Marguerite Shuttle at the Palo Alto Transit Center, California Avenue, and Menlo Park stations System Map How to Ride guide BART is a public transportation system that serves part of the San Francisco Bay Area. Riders can connect to Caltrain at the Millbrae BART station Stanford is near three San Francisco Bay Area International Airports: San Francisco International Airport (SFO) - about 26 miles San Jose International Airport (SJC) - about 24 miles Oakland International Airport (OAK) - about 30 miles Have questions about the IVS Program? Please send email to visiting-MD-students@stanford.edu Visiting Clerkships Visiting Students Application Process 2026-27 Clerkship Schedule Clerkship Descriptions How to Apply Post Decision Requirements Eligibility Requirements Before Arriving at Stanford Housing Resources While at Stanford Parking & Transportation Before Leaving Stanford SCORE Program SCORE - How to Apply SCORE - Participating Departments SCORE - Welcome SCORE - Before Arriving at Stanford SCORE - While at Stanford SCORE - Meet our Alumni SCORE - Metrics International Visiting Student Program IVS - Admission Requirements IVS - How to Apply IVS - Clerkship Descriptions IVS - Acceptance IVS - Before Arriving IVS - While at Stanford IVS - Welcome Flyer IVS - Metrics IVS - Frequently Asked Application Questions Contact Us International Visiting Student Program Stanford Medicine News Careers Contact Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Careers Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift &copy; 2026 Stanford University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Non-Discrimination See us on Facebook See us on X (Twitter) Non-Discrimination Stanford complies with all applicable civil rights laws and does not engage in illegal preferences or discrimination. Stanford's Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Stanford Health Care Tri-Valley Stanford Medicine Partners