Visiting Medical Students | School of Medicine | Vanderbilt University > Vanderbilt University School of Medicine Main Menu Main Menu MD Program Overview Admissions Admissions Overview Application Process Cost & Financial Aid Connect with Student Ambassadors Accepted Students Curriculum Curriculum Overview Year 1 Year 2 Years 3-4 Foundations of Physician Responsibility Research Additional Education Opportunities All Opportunities Dual Degrees Graduate Certificate Programs Medical Scholars Program Medical Innovators Development Program (MIDP) Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP) Student Life Student Life Overview Student Support Services Milestones & Events Organizations Contact Student Affairs Visiting Medical Students MD Program Overview Admissions Admissions Overview Application Process Cost & Financial Aid Connect with Student Ambassadors Accepted Students Curriculum Curriculum Overview Year 1 Year 2 Years 3-4 Foundations of Physician Responsibility Research Additional Education Opportunities All Opportunities Dual Degrees Graduate Certificate Programs Medical Scholars Program Medical Innovators Development Program (MIDP) Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP) Student Life Student Life Overview Student Support Services Milestones & Events Organizations Contact Student Affairs Visiting Medical Students MD Program Vanderbilt University Vanderbilt University Alumni Students Giving VUMC Menu Close Menu School of Medicine Education All Degrees & Programs Doctor of Medicine (MD) Programs Master of Public Health (MPH) Hearing & Speech Sciences Programs Medical Physics Programs Master of Genetic Counseling (MGC) Master of Imaging Science (MIS) MS in Applied Clinical Informatics (MSACI) Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions Information Financial Aid Research News Recent VUSM News Our Magazine About About VUSM History Why VUSM Catalog Faculty Directory Contact Us Close Menu Vanderbilt University School of Medicine All Vanderbilt Education All Degrees & Programs Doctor of Medicine (MD) Programs Master of Public Health (MPH) Hearing & Speech Sciences Programs Medical Physics Programs Master of Genetic Counseling (MGC) Master of Imaging Science (MIS) MS in Applied Clinical Informatics (MSACI) Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions Information Financial Aid Research News Recent VUSM News Our Magazine About About VUSM History Why VUSM Catalog Faculty Directory Contact Us About This is Vanderbilt Quick Facts University Leadership History Contact A to Z Admissions Undergraduate Admissions Graduate & Professional School Admissions Financial Aid Academics Program Finder Schools & Colleges Residential Colleges Study Abroad Libraries Strategic Plan Research Centers & Institutes Research News Undergraduate Research Graduate School Research VUMC Research Campus Life Housing & Dining Organizations & Identity Centers Athletics Our Hometown - Nashville News & Events Vanderbilt News Research News Vanderbilt Magazine Events Alumni Students Giving VUMC Visiting Medical Students Vanderbilt University School of Medicine accepts visiting students from other accredited U.S. medical schools from June to December each year. View the catalog and apply through the Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) portal of AAMC. Access VSLO On this page Eligibility Requirements In order to be a visiting student at Vanderbilt, you must: Be in your 4th year of medical school Attend a university that has an affiliation agreement with Vanderbilt University School of Medicine Have either BLS or ACLS training that has not expired Passing Step 1 or Step 2, or COMLEX score Some electives require a letter of interest or a letter of recommendation. Please be sure to check the specific elective requirements in VSLO. Affiliation Agreements In order to rotate at Vanderbilt, your school must have an affiliation agreement with Vanderbilt University School of Medicine. We recommend that institutions sign on to the AAMC Uniform Clinical Training Agreement , as we have. The requirement in VSLO should be fulfilled by the home school admin, including the contact information for the individual responsible for handling affiliation agreements at the sending school. If the student is accepted for rotation, we will reach out to establish an affiliation agreement if one is not already in place. Application Process Overview for Domestic Institutions Application Timeline Vanderbilt’s VSLO catalog will be visible on March 2nd and open to receiving applications on March 9th, 2026. Offers will be sent no sooner than 12 weeks before the start date of each elective. Complete Your Application on VSLO An application is considered complete when it contains uploads of a student’s: Complete Student Information section (including DOB) CV Transcript Home Institution provides proof of scrub training USMLE Step 1 or Step 2 Score Report or COMLEX Incomplete applications will be deemed ineligible and will not be reconsidered. For complete applications, the individual department reviews the VSLO applications specific to that specialty. Students may not take more than one (1) elective. Please note that our Student Health department reviews the immunization records of each invited student. Applications will not be rejected based on missing health requirements. You will be given time to complete the requirements prior to the start date. Invitations to Rotate We begin processing post decision review documents around 30 days prior to the start of your rotation. After we process the documents, we will send the confirmation in VSLO. Please note: As soon as you accept our conditional offer, your spot is confirmed. The VSLO confirmation serves as just a formality. If you receive an invitation to rotate, you will need to complete these 4 items: Accept the invitation in VSLO within one (1) week Pay the $180.00 non-refundable processing fee for visiting students via our online platform. A payment link will be sent to you in your VSLO acceptance email. You must create an account to pay the fee. Meharry Medical College students are exempt from this fee due to the Meharry Vanderbilt Alliance. Upload a recent criminal background check (within the last 12 months) to your VSLO profile. Although the CBC needs to be a national check, we neither recommend nor require any one particular company. Please also upload a photo for ID badge processing. Upload a completed AAMC Immunization Form and Vanderbilt Required Additional Immunization Addendum (available on VSLO). Information for Accepted Students Housing Vanderbilt University School of Medicine does not provide housing for visiting medical students. The following resources may be helpful: Scarritt Bennet Center Rotating Room (for Medical Students) Furnished Finder Immunizations and Titers Please note that our Student Health department reviews the immunization records of each invited student. Upload a completed AAMC Immunization Form and Vanderbilt Required Additional Immunization Addendum (available on VSLO). If you cannot find vaccine records, a titer will suffice for varicella, measles, mumps, rubella, and hepatitis B. Titers provided must be from after the age of 16. If you cannot find records of polio or Tdap, titers are not needed. If you provide vaccine and titer information on the AAMC form, please also provide titer lab reports. Please supply what records you do have, and we’ll make recommendations regarding what additional shots may be needed for polio or Tdap. If you did not have the varicella vaccine but instead had the chicken pox disease, you will need a titer. If you receive a booster and then a titer shows you are immune, then that will suffice for the purposes of your experience at Vanderbilt. Applications will not be rejected based on missing health requirements. You will be given time to complete the requirements prior to the start date. International Students Vanderbilt University School of Medicine hosts a select number of international students during the spring months from our established partner institutions. At this time, our list of partners is full and we are not seeking to expand our program. Electives Available to Visiting Students All rotations must coincide with our academic calendar for visiting student electives . Please note that not all electives are offered every month. Anesthesiology Electives ANES-5610: Perioperative Medicine and Surgical Home Requirement: 3,000 character maximum original letter of interest Application deadline April 18, 2026 (Offered June – December) This course is designed to emphasize the concepts of coordinated perioperative medicine and enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS). Evidence-based guidelines, optimization/standardization of perioperative care, and multimodal strategies to decrease postoperative morbidities are key components of ERAS. The student will function as integral part of the Perioperative Anesthesia Consult Service and learn fundamental aspects of anesthetic care that maximize perioperative pain control and reduce morbidity and healthcare. Please note, the majority of this rotation will take place out of the operating room on the Perioperative and Acute Pain services. On average, students will be in the operating room or on obstetric anesthesia one day per week. ANES-5611: Advanced Clinical Anesthesiology Requirement: 3,000 character maximum original letter of interest Application deadline April 18, 2026 (Offered July – December) This rotation will define the role of Anesthesiology as a Perioperative Medicine Specialty in which students will gain broad understanding of the perioperative management of patients across all age groups undergoing surgical procedures. Course content will emphasize the following principles: preoperative assessment, development and execution of an anesthetic plan (including induction of anesthesia, airway management, maintenance of anesthesia, and emergence), and management of acute pain. Students will become an integral part of an anesthesia care team model. Working side-by-side with the attending anesthesiologist and resident, students will learn and actively participate in the anesthetic management of patients presenting for surgical procedures and diagnostic or therapeutic interventions. In addition to the operating room, students will rotate through many different anesthesiology services including: acute pain service, perioperative service, Hi-RiSE clinic, chronic pain clinic, PACU, and neuro ICU. Dermatology Elective DERM-5790: Clinical Dermatology This clinical experience will be in the outpatient clinic setting and the inpatient consultation setting with direct faculty interaction. The location of clinic assignments will be in the VU Dermatology Clinic at Vanderbilt One Hundred Oaks and the Dermatology Clinic at the Nashville VA Hospital. There will be participation in weekly conferences specifically for the rotators on the clerkship. The didactic lectures during the month will focus on the identification, treatment, and management of common dermatologic diseases. The clinical experience will reinforce the lectures plus give insight into the role of the dermatologist as a consultant for less common and difficult to treat conditions. Emergency Medicine Elective EM-5950: Emergency Medicine (only offered June – September) $2000 Launching Leaders Stipend available. To learn more, visit https://redcap.vumc.org/surveys/?s=9HD333DM7P4RCDA7 “Is there a doctor on the plane?” Emergencies happen in all specialties and even in life. The 4 week Emergency Medicine ACE will introduce the student to emergency medicine and the initial management strategies for common life threatening emergencies. Students will develop an approach to common undifferentiated patient complaints and a practical skill set in: acid-base emergencies, basic airway management, electrocardiogram interpretation, and electrolyte emergencies. Students will also complete Basic Life Support (BLs) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) training. During the week, there are daily didactic sessions as well as procedure labs and high fidelity simulations. Clinical shifts are spread across a variety of practice settings (adult and pediatrics) and offer a broad exposure. Students work closely with emergency medicine faculty and residents to identify sick patients and develop differential diagnoses and management plans. Students also have the opportunity to participate in procedures and trauma resuscitations. Fulfills the acute care course requirement. Medicine Electives MED-5610: Clinical Nephrology This experience is designed to give the immersion phase student significant experience in practical clinical nephrology and prepare him or her for future house staff training. Students will participate in daily rounds on either the Vanderbilt Nephrology Service, ESRD service, transplant service, or the VA nephrology service. Students will also have the option of spending time in the nephrology and dialysis clinics to gain more experience. Patients with various clinical disorders including fluid and electrolyte abnormalities, acid-base disturbances, glomerular diseases, and disturbances of kidney function, including acute and chronic kidney failure, will be seen and discussed. Students will have the opportunity to perform kidney consults and present patients to the rest of the rounding team. Frequently, the nephrology service is requested to perform emergency consultation which requires acute hemodialysis or acute plasmapheresis. Students may participate in these acute consultations, assist with acute dialysis catheter placement, and develop an understanding of kidney emergencies and their treatment. MED-5655: Geriatric Medicine The intent of this course is to provide students with an advanced educational experience in geriatric medicine. Students will gain familiarity with multiple geriatric syndromes: polypharmacy, gait instability, dementia, fragility, pain management, pressure sores, incontinence, osteoporosis; appreciation for continuity of care across different levels of care; and the ability to differentiate between normal aging and disease processes. Students’ knowledge of ethical issues will also be enhanced including patient autonomy, driving, elder abuse, and advance care planning. Students will also be able to identify and use community resources effectively, assess and treat multiple geriatric syndromes, organize management of multiple acute and chronic diseases simultaneously, and communicate sensitively and effectively with older persons and caregivers. VA system access is required. Students cannot take this course if they have not received VA access at least 2 weeks before the course starts. MED-5680: Infectious Diseases During this course, students will evaluate patients with suspected infections as part of multiple infectious diseases services at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. This course is intended to expose medical students to the breadth of infectious diseases. Students will have to opportunity to care for patients with undifferentiated fevers including improving experience with use of antibiotics, patients undergoing or have just undergone surgical procedures, care for people living with HIV, or patients who are on immunocompromising medications such as chemotherapy, transplant anti-rejection medications, or biologic medications. Students should gain competence in diagnostic skills and in the management of patients consulted, including the choice and use of antibiotic therapy. They will be active participants in the initial evaluation, management, and follow-up of patients on the consult service. Students will attend regularly scheduled rounds and have the opportunity to attend conferences within the Division of Infectious Diseases. All students will rotate on 2 weeks of general infectious diseases inpatient consults. The remaining 2 weeks will allow the student to select of the following options in 1-week rotations: General Infectious Diseases Consult Service Orthopedic ID Consult Service Transplant/Immunocompromised Consult Service Rogers ID (HIV) Inpatient Primary Service Vanderbilt Comprehensive Care Clinic (HIV Clinic) General ID Clinic MED-5735: Palliative Care (not offered in July) Students will rotate through VUMC and the VA Hospital under the supervision of palliative care specialists. Students will follow their own patients and work with an interdisciplinary team (IDT). This opportunity will allow students to learn and apply the fundamentals in pain and symptom management, how to communicate at the end of life, care of the dying patient, and hospice criteria. Students will spend roughly two weeks with the VUMC consult service, one week at the VUMC Palliative Care Unit, and one week at the VA. They will also work several days with community hospice members, child life specialists, chaplains, case managers, social workers, and nurses. At VUMC and the VA Hospital, students will work with the inpatient consultative team and see patients throughout the hospital from all disciplines of medicine assisting in symptom management, advanced care planning, and hospice information. During their time with hospice, they will accompany members of the IDT on home visits and learn more about their various roles in end of life care. The palliative care physicians and nurse practitioners will supervise and evaluate the students on the basis of the six clinical core competencies as delineated by the ACGME. Creative structuring will allow students to make modifications to the rotation to meet individual needs. VA system access is required. Students cannot take this course if they have not received VA access at least 2 weeks before the course starts. MED-5760: Rheumatology (Only offered in June, September, and October) Time will be spent primarily in the rheumatology clinic at the Vanderbilt clinic and involved in the consultation from the hospital with the rheumatology team at VUMC. the VA Hospital (VAH). Students will have an opportunity to be involved in the clinic and consultation from the hospital with the rheumatology team at VAH. Upon request, students may have an opportunity to expose to pediatric rheumatology. Students will work in several clinics with different rheumatologists each day, and they will observe patient evaluations and treatments. Materials for study will be given. There will be an expectation from a student to perform patient assessment especially in history taking and physical examination focusing on rheumatology. Students will have an opportunity to attend all rheumatology conferences, in both clinical and research meetings. MED-5780: Medical Oncology This advanced clinical experience will provide the student with a broad overview of inpatient clinical oncology. Inpatient exposure will be centered at Vanderbilt Hospital, where the student will assist in the evaluation of new oncology service admissions and new consultations. The student will make morning rounds and present new cases to the oncology attending. Neurology Electives NEUR-5612: General Neurology (Only offered July, August, September) Students will participate in a four-week general neurology rotation that will have a flexible schedule to allow students to pursue specific interests. The schedule will consist of time on the inpatient general neurology service and the neurology consult service, with the option to attend occasional outpatient clinics. Obstetrics/Gynecology Electives OBGN-5630: Maternal Fetal Medicine (Only offered July – October) Prerequisite: Visiting students must have completed OBGN clerkship prior to rotation. During this rotation, the student receives advanced exposure to the practice of outpatient high-risk obstetrics. Students will help to direct the outpatient antepartum care of women with common complications of pregnancy, including preterm labor, pre-gestational diabetes, chronic hypertension, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and maternal cardiac disease. By the end of the rotation, the student should be familiar with common complications of pregnancy and be confident in delivering directed and concise patient assessments and treatment plans. Outpatient learning activities include attendance in MFM return OB and consult clinics, with additional time spent in diabetes clinic, and obstetrical ultrasound. The student will develop and complete an individualized learning plan during the rotation that may involve some inpatient training opportunities. OB simulation training exercises at the end of the rotation to assess student knowledge, communication skills, and procedural competencies. The student will meet with faculty preceptor(s) 1 to 2x/week to review specific cases related to learning plan objectives. OBGN-5655: Gynecologic Oncology (only offered July – October) During this rotation, the student receives training in the management of gynecologic oncology patients. The student participates in the evaluation and treatment of patients, gaining clinical experience in both the inpatient and outpatient settings for the care of gynecologic malignancies. The student will be exposed to surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation techniques, with additional teaching in domains such as pathology and acute medical care. The student will be primarily responsible for 2-3 inpatients under the direct supervision of the resident on service. By the end of the rotation, the student should be familiar with the staging of different gynecologic malignancies, common treatment modalities, and important prognostic factors affecting survival. In addition, the student will be exposed to the immediate postoperative care of the acutely ill patient. Specific learning activities include pre- and postoperative care of the oncology surgical patient, assistance in the operative cases on the service, and attendance in the private clinics of the oncology attending. OBGN-5660: Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery (only offered July – October) During this rotation, the student receives training and practical experience in the diagnosis and management of pelvic floor defects and dysfunctions. The student will participate in preoperative evaluation, surgery, and post-operative follow-up of operative cases. In addition, there will be exposure to conservation treatment including pelvic floor rehabilitation and insertion/management of pessaries. History and physical exam in the setting of pelvic floor defects are also emphasized. OBGN-5665: Operative Gynecology (only offered August – October) Operative Gynecology seeks to integrate didactic and interactive teaching, general and specialty clinic experience, outpatient and inpatient management experience, and focused independent study to gain a more in depth appreciation for clinical presentation, diagnostic evaluation, clinical or surgical management, and short or long term follow-up of common gynecologic problems. Ophthalmology Elective OPH-5610: Ophthalmology Requirement: Personal statement and personal goals for rotation (student upload) (only offered June – September. Application Deadline for is March 29th, 2026. VEI is offering a need-based scholarship. The application deadline for this scholarship is March 29th, 2026. If submitted on March 30th, CST, it will not be reviewed. Link to scholarship app: https://redcap.vumc.org/surveys/?s=7ALEPYJT4PXXHMY3 Ophthalmology is a wonderful specialty, combining both medical and surgical care of the eye and the peri-ocular structures. The ACE will allow medical students to participate in care delivered at the Vanderbilt Eye Institute, the Nashville Veterans’ Affairs Hospital, the Vanderbilt University Hospital and Monroe Carell Jr Children’s Hospital’s inpatient and emergency room and OR. Through shadowing attendings and performing ophthalmic exams, it is expected at the conclusion of the ACE a medical student will be able to (1) perform a basic slit-lamp examination and a dilated fundus examination with a direct ophthalmoscope, (2) have a working understanding of the major etiologies of vision loss in the United States, including cataracts, glaucoma, age-related macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy and amblyopia, and (3) accurately diagnose common ophthalmic issues, including corneal abrasions, conjunctivitis and acute-angle closure glaucoma. Additionally, the societal impact of loss of vision on a person’s activities of daily living, the reestablishment of independence following restoration of sight and the evolving role of the ophthalmologist providing this care should be appreciated by the medical student. Orthopaedic Elective ORTH-5611: General Orthopaedics Application Deadline March 31st, 2026 Website link: https://www.vumc.org/ortho/ms4-clerkship (only offered July – November) This course provides hands-on exposure to orthopaedic trauma and injury care in adults and children. The student will be able to integrate medical and surgical knowledge in caring for orthopaedic trauma patients with musculoskeletal injuries in inpatient and outpatient settings. An Emphasis on initial evaluation, preoperative and postoperative management, and intraoperative surgical procedures will be placed. Students will act as part of a multi-disciplinary team during this course. Students are also allowed to participate in the call experience, providing casting and splinting care and assisting in patient evaluations. Didactic sessions are held for one hour each morning prior to surgical cases or clinic, during which the student will be able to integrate medical and surgical knowledge into patient care. Otolaryngology Elective OTO-5625: Otolaryngology Requirement: Personal statement (student upload) (Not offered in December) The Otolaryngology ACE is a surgical and medical course that offers immersion into the oldest medical specialty in the United States. This course deals with disorders of the ear, nose, and throat and involves the Head and Neck/Laryngology, Pediatric Otolaryngology, Rhinology/Plastic Surgery, and Otology services. Rotations provide the clinical complexity of various head and neck pathologies and explore medical and surgical treatment plans. The course will focus on the diagnosis, treatment, and management of many specialty-specific disorders as well as primary care problems associated with pediatric and adult patients in the ambulatory, inpatient, and operating room setting. Rotators will encounter disorders including ear disease and hearing loss, head and neck cancer, voice and communication disorders, obstructive sleep apnea, and airway abnormalities. The outpatient setting will enhance and reinforce a thorough head and neck examination, including the ear exam, and foster the development of an Otolaryngologic assessment and plan. Additionally, students will be able to be involved with the inpatient otolaryngology team and aid in and observe operating room procedures. Students will have a unique look into the complexities of this specialty and become involved with the multi-disciplinary approaches to treatment with other team members, including audiologists, speech pathologists, radiologists, pulmonary and gastroenterology physicians. Pathology Electives PATH-5620: Anatomical Pathology (Not offered July – September) This four week Advanced Clinical Experience is designed to provide in-depth exposure to the practice of anatomic pathology via a mixture of services and is an ideal way to gain additional insight into the field for both those students considering pathology as a career and those who plan to pursue clinical specialties which frequently make use of pathology services. Depending on specific student interest and service availability, the setting for this clerkship may include the sub-specialty-oriented surgical pathology service at VUMC, the general surgical pathology service at the VA Hospital, the cytopathology service at VUMC, the pediatric surgical pathology service at Monroe Carell, Jr. Children’s Hospital and the autopsy pathology service at VUMC. Emphasis is placed on introducing the student to the methods of specimen processing, evaluation and diagnosis in anatomic pathology with a particular focus on the relationship that anatomic pathologists maintain with clinical colleagues in the context of patient care efforts. Opportunities will exist for students to see a range of specimen types from fine needle aspiration biopsies to multi-organ resections and full autopsies. Students will work closely with pathology residents and fellows and will participate in a variety of tasks including pathologist performed biopsies, intra-operative consultations, gross specimen evaluation and selection of histologic sections for microscopic review. Additionally students will preview microscopic slides and dictate draft reports for selected cases and will subsequently participate in case review, ancillary test ordering/evaluation and final case sign out with the attending pathologist. Students will be expected to attend the various intradepartmental educational conferences in anatomic pathology as they occur. Pediatric Electives PED-5580: Undiagnosed Diseases Offered June – August About 5-10% of the United States population is living with an undiagnosed disease. This places a lot of stress on these individuals and their healthcare providers. There is hope for a diagnosis for this population as new and emerging technologies and expanding recognition of the problem has led to increasing opportunities to reach a diagnosis. The Undiagnosed Diseases Network is a multicenter program funded by the National Institutes of Health with the dual goal of providing answers to patients and families and further medical science in the process. Vanderbilt has been involved in the Undiagnosed Diseases Network since 2014, has had its own Undiagnosed Diseases Program since 2021, and has had a partnership with United Healthcare for patients on a diagnostic odyssey under their insurance since 2022. This rotation provides exposure to these unique programs and the multitude of tools and resources that they utilize. This includes a multidisciplinary clinic, research-based tools for genomic analysis, and participation in collaborative research. Students rotating will learn about the challenges of living with an undiagnosed disease and the tools used to improve patient care for this population through examination of prospective cases, participation in clinic, review of unsolved cases, and analysis of the patient’s data with a multidisciplinary team. PED-5612: Adolescent Medicine Adolescent Medicine is a unique subspecialty in pediatrics in that it combines both primary care with consultative care for adolescents and young adults ages 12 to 22 years of age. During this ACE students will have the opportunity to learn comprehensive care of the adolescent using both a primary care and a multidisciplinary team approach. Students will have the ability to function within the Adolescent/Young Adult Clinic and will be exposed to a multidisciplinary team which includes a social worker, nutritionist and psychiatrist in conjunction with an adolescent medicine physician. At the end of the course, students will feel comfortable performing a complete psychosocial assessment of an adolescent using the HEADDSS assessment tool. They will have the opportunity to provide primary and basic gynecologic care for adolescents to include (1) how to perform a sports clearance exam; (2) how to take an appropriate menstrual history and screen for menstrual disorders; (3) how to take an appropriate sexual history; (4) how to counsel an adolescent on contraception. Students will also gain experience in the care of adolescents/young adults with eating disorders and major depression. Evaluations will be based on the student’s ability to take a complete and appropriate history/physical and develop a cohesive and appropriate treatment plan. PED-5615: Pediatric Neurology Students will participate in a four-week pediatric neurology advanced clinical experience with a flexible schedule that will allow students to pursue specific interests. Given student interests, the schedule will be individually tailored through discussion/planning with the ACE director and involve participation in the following venues: outpatient pediatric neurology clinic and the inpatient teams encompassing pediatric neurology, pediatric epilepsy, and critical care. As an alternative, consider enrolling in the Pediatric Epilepsy ACE as well. PED-5620: Pediatric Epilepsy Pediatric Epilepsy Advanced Clinical Experience (PEACE) is an exciting multi-disciplinary specialty that encompasses pediatric neurology, neurosurgery, neuroradiology and neuropathology. Patients present with seizure onset ranging from birth into young adulthood. While due to many etiologies, most patients do well with standard medications achieving excellent seizure control. However, a substantial subset requires additional evaluations as well as dietary or surgical approaches. PEACE students will function within inpatient and outpatient clinical teams, as well as participate in divisional teaching conferences and also learn basic EEG reading skills. PEACE students will (1) deepen their understanding mechanisms causing epilepsy in children, (2) learn the basic principles of EEG reading and medical management of epilepsy in children, and (3) participate in multi-disciplinary evaluations of patents with epilepsy and participate in neurosurgical assessments and procedures. As an alternative, also consider enrolling in Pediatric Neurology ACE. PED-5635: Pediatric Hematology/Oncology Requirement: Letter of Interest (student upload) (Not offered in December) Once students have finished this elective, they will have a better understanding of the pathology, treatment, and survival of common childhood cancers. They will also gain experience in working up and treating anemias and bleeding disorders. These objectives are accomplished through a combination of inpatient time and outpatient time. Half of the course will be on the inpatient service where the students will be expected to follow their own patients, present on rounds, write daily progress notes, and prepare a short 10-15 minute discussion of a patient of interest. The student should also participate in walk rounds with the fellow and faculty for more informal discussion. The other half of the course will be in the outpatient clinic. While there, the student will see both new patients and patients returning for therapy. The student will take a history from the family, perform a physical exam, interpret lab tests, present these patients to the faculty, and write notes. The student will also have the opportunity to attend “specialty” clinics to see a group of patients with a focused set of problems (for example sickle cell clinic). PED-5680: Pediatric Cardiology The advanced clinical experience in pediatric cardiology is a four week course that aims to expose medical students to the broad spectrum of cardiac disease in children. The students will spend two weeks on the inpatient service getting exposure to acute cardiac disease and their care during perioperative period. Students will be responsible examining patients, presenting in rounds, and participating in the team care of the patients. An additional two weeks will be spent focusing on the outpatient side of cardiology. The student will participate in a variety of different cardiology outpatient clinics. Throughout the experience, the student will have the opportunity to accompany the inpatient cardiology fellow on inpatient consults. PED-5690: Pediatric Endocrinology Pediatric Endocrinology is a wonderful sub specialty of Pediatrics which involves studying about and caring for patients who have abnormalities involving hormonal regulation of basic body systems. Students will study physiology, pathology, molecular biology, genetics and pharmacology during the time they care for these patients. Some examples of endocrine disorders they will be expected to learn about will include: growth and pubertal disorders, disturbances in calcium homeostasis, hypo and hyperthyroidism, adrenal disorders, some disorders of sexual development and common disorders of glucose regulation. Students will also learn about how to manage acutely ill pediatric diabetes patients in the hospital setting and they will learn the fundamentals of chronic, out-patient diabetes management. Under the supervision of the endocrine attending physician, students will see patients in the out- patient endocrine and diabetes clinics, and they will be an integral part of our ward team on the inpatient Endocrine service. PED-5710: Pediatric Gastroenterology (not offered in December) The Pediatric Gastroenterology Advanced Clinical Experience (ACE) provides exposure to a broad range of gastrointestinal, nutritional, and liver diseases in both the inpatient and ambulatory settings. Students will have the opportunity to observe and participate in outpatient evaluations of infants and children referred to the pediatric gastroenterology clinic under the direct supervision of faculty attending pediatric gastroenterologist, attend endoscopic procedures, participate in inpatient pediatric gastroenterology inpatient care and consults, and attend scheduled divisional didactic conferences. The rotation provides students with experience in the workup of common pediatric symptom complexes such as abdominal pain, vomiting, diarrhea, jaundice, and many other common complaints, as well as the opportunity to participate in multidisciplinary care of complex gastrointestinal disorders such as inflammatory bowel disease and chronic liver disease. Attendance in the endoscopy suite allows familiarity with esophago-gastroduodenoscopy, colonoscopy, polypectomy, and rectal suction biopsy. The rotation will include core reading on the pathophysiology and management of important gastrointestinal diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease, biliary atresia, and short bowel syndrome. The student will prepare one in-depth talk on a gastrointestinal topic of their choice and receive feedback from the attending on the content and delivery. PED-5720: Pediatric Nephrology (not offered in July) Pediatric Nephrology is an exciting specialty that functions at the intersection of renal physiology, pathology, anatomy, genetics, pharmacology, and immunology. Students who participate in this Advanced Clinical Experience will actively participate in the evaluation and management of patients who demonstrate the consequences of alterations in renal development and the genes that direct development. Students will have the opportunity to see in inpatients and outpatients with acute and chronic alterations in renal physiology including those with acute kidney injury, hypertension, glomerulonephritis, and chronic kidney disease in addition to those with congenital abnormalities of the kidney and urinary tract. Advanced understanding of renal physiology and pathophysiology will be an asset in any career path, because the kidney controls homeostasis for the entire body. PED-5740: Pediatric Pulmonary Medicine We welcome students interested in greater exposure to pediatrics in the context of pediatric pulmonary medicine. The purpose of this ACE is for students to gain expertise in the clinical evaluation of pulmonary disease in infants, children, and adolescents through experiences in the hospital and the outpatient clinic. Students will have the opportunity to participate in bronchoscopies and also in specialized multi-disciplinary clinics in cystic fibrosis, aerodigestive disease, pulmonary hypertension, and interstitial lung disease. The Division’s weekly didactic conferences will reinforce the patient care experiences. PED-5815: Neonatology (Not offered in November or December) Prerequisite: Visiting students must have completed their Pediatric core clerkship. Neonatologists care for newborns with a wide variety of conditions, ranging from prematurity to surgical conditions, infections to congenital cardiac disease, and respiratory distress to genetic disorders. Students in this rotation will work in the Children's Hospital Neonatal Intensive Care Unit on the Green Team our primary teaching team with interns, upper level residents and NICU fellows. The Green Team cares for patients primarily with surgical and genetic disorders. This team does not attend deliveries. The AI will provide care for 2-4 patients (up to 5 if desired) with a wide range of conditions. The AI will be expected to pre-round on all patients they are following, write orders and assist with TPN orders, review X-rays and lab results and contact and interact with consultants. He or she will be required to write History and Physicals and update hospital courses, but will NOT write progress notes. This AI will expose students to complex and sick infants and is recommended for students interested in pediatrics, critical care, neonatal medicine or students interested in general surgery with a focus on pediatric surgical conditions. The focus of the Green team is on teaching and learning and attendings that rotate on this team are dedicated to teaching. Daily schedule is Monday-Friday 6am-5pm with two out of four Saturdays, the remainder of weekend days are off. There is no overnight call required but can be arranged if of interest. Daily rounds start at 8:30am. There are afternoon lectures focused on high yield neonatology topics students can attend with the residents in addition to the daily resident lectures. The AI will received feedback from their attending at the end of each week, including feedback on presentations, physical exam, and H&Ps. Please reach out to the course director if there are any questions related to this AI and we look forward to welcoming you in the NICU. PED-5830: Pediatric Emergency Medicine Pediatric Emergency Medicine physicians need to be prepared to care for minor ailments to life-threatening events. The Pediatric Emergency Department rotation will expose students to a wide variety of patient pathology in a fast paced setting. Students will simultaneously obtain a history and perform a physical exam on pediatric patients from newborn to adolescence. Under the direct supervision of attendings, fellows and senior residents, students will exercise critical thinking and develop differential diagnosis, management and disposition for pediatric patients presenting with medical illnesses, surgical workups, and traumatic injuries. The course will focus on common infectious diseases, pediatric surgical/orthopedic emergencies and toxicology emergencies. The student will increase their communication skills with children, families, consultants and emergency medicine staff. Students will participate under supervision in common procedures in pediatric emergency medicine such as suturing, sedation, and splinting of extremity injuries. Students work fifteen, 8 hour shifts which may include weekends and overnights. Students may also participate in weekly fellow conferences as well as journal clubs and simulation scenarios. PED-5835: Pediatric Cardiac Surgery Pediatric cardiac surgery is a highly sub-specialized branch of surgery that deals with some of the most complex anatomical and physiological problems in children and young adults. A large multi-disciplinary team is tasked with the diagnosis, evaluation, medical management, and surgical strategies to repair congenital heart defects. This Advanced Clinical Experience in pediatric cardiac surgery aims to introduce the learner to the surgical management of congenital heart disease. Most of the time will be spent on the inpatient service working in the operating room and managing patients pre- and post-operatively in the intensive care unit and cardiac floor, with weekly opportunities to work with the congenital heart surgeons in the outpatient clinic. Students will be expected to attend daily rounds/conferences with the team, follow patients the student attended at operation, and attend and present at journal club/teaching conference. Exposure to pediatric cardiology, imaging, anesthesia, and intensive care medicine will be available throughout the course to enhance integration into the team. PED-5910: Pediatric Infectious Diseases The Pediatric Infectious Diseases (PID) Advanced Clinical Experience (ACE) provides students the opportunity to evaluate and participate in the management of children with a wide range of suspected or proven infectious diseases. The PID rotation allows the learner to gain experience in the workup of common symptom complexes such as prolonged fever, joint pain / limp, respiratory illnesses, rash, and many other common pediatric presentations. The rotation also provides valuable experience in the pharmacology and pharmacodynamics of antimicrobial agents, as well as the proper use and potential adverse effects of these commonly prescribed drugs. The rotation will include core reading on the pathophysiology and management of infectious diseases such as meningitis, osteomyelitis, and pneumonia. Students will actively participate in the evaluation and management of children on the PID service in both the ambulatory and inpatient settings. PED-5990: Pediatric Critical Care (Only offered in June, August, and November) Pediatric Critical Care is an exciting specialty that cares for the sickest patients from birth into young adulthood. The Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and the Pediatric Cardiac Intensive Care Unit (PCICU) both offer unique blends of physiology, pharmacology and pathology in disease processes ranging from to sepsis, respiratory failure, and traumatic brain injury to congenital heart disease and its repair. Students will have the opportunity to function within the PICU and/or PCICU clinical teams, as well as participate in divisional teaching conferences. The course will focus on enhancing student clinical practice-based learning skills. Students will have the opportunity to (1) deepen understanding of the complex pathophysiology of critically ill children, (2) learn the basic principles of multidisciplinary management and resuscitation of critically ill children, and (3) review common diseases seen in a busy pediatric critical care unit. Additionally, students will be expected to stay for overnight call at least four times during the four-week rotation. Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Elective PMR-5611: Introduction to PM&R (not offered in December) Hands-on exposure to the practice of physical medicine and rehabilitation (PM&R) with an emphasis on musculoskeletal and neurological rehabilitation is offered in this course. Students will have the opportunity to follow patients in the post-acute care and outpatient PM&R clinic settings. This course offers a broad exposure to patients with significant impairment and disability, including those with spinal cord injury, traumatic brain injury, stroke, amputations, and general debilitation. Students will be expected to participate in the evaluation and treatment of individuals who require intensive therapies to maximize their function and quality of life. Additionally, adult and pediatric outpatient follow-ups, EMG clinics, spine procedures, therapy sessions, and others are available to give students a wide exposure to PM&R. Psychiatry Electives PSYCH-5629: Inpatient Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (not offered in July) Students will provide inpatient psychiatric care for children and adolescents ages 4 to 18. Students can expect to see various diagnoses and presenting complaints including depression, anxiety, psychotic disorders, and autism. Students will join a multidisciplinary team, working with nurses, social workers, and behavioral health specialists to treat acute mental illness. The primary goals of treatment include comprehensive diagnosis, pharmacologic management, development of treatment plans, and implementation of behavior management protocols. Students will also learn therapeutic family work focused on safe transition out of the acute inpatient setting. PSYCH-5645: Adult Psychiatry Consult-Liaison (not offered in July, November, or December) The Psychiatry Consultation Service at VUMC provides psychiatric services for a broad range of patients with neuropsychiatric conditions in the context of medical, surgical, obstetrical, and other inpatient settings at Vanderbilt University Hospital and Stallworth Rehabilitation Hospital. Our service is one of the busiest in the country and offers an opportunity to gain experience managing the behavioral health conditions that impact patients across every medical specialty. Commonly treated conditions include delirium, dementia, depression, anxiety, suicide attempts, substance withdrawal, conversion disorder, encephalitis, catatonia, among others. Regardless of the diagnosis, we also help with agitation management and capacity evaluation. The sub-intern will become an integral part of the team, with assigned primary focus on the care of their own census of patients, and will be directly supervised by the chief resident and/or attending physician. A practical focus on areas of special interest to the student may be arranged. Additional exposure to subspecialty areas of consultation-liaison psychiatry including Addiction, Transplant, Emergency, and Proactive Psychiatric services is also available and highly encouraged. Radiology Electives RAD-5710: Diagnostic Radiology (only offered July – October) The Visiting Diagnostic Radiology Elective in diagnostic radiology is designed for medical students interested in pursuing a career in radiology. The goals of the course are to acquaint medical students with the fundamentals of diagnostic imaging and to highlight optimal imaging pathways for various clinical conditions. Students will rotate through several diagnostic subspecialties in radiology and get a broad exposure to various pathologies and imaging modalities. Daily instruction will be provided by faculty, fellows, and residents. RAD-5630: Pediatric Radiology (Only offered August and October) This course introduces the student to diagnostic imaging in a children's hospital setting. The course is a combination of case-based instructional materials and time in the reading room. The course covers all diagnostic imaging modalities: radiographs, fluoroscopy, computed tomography (CT), MRI, nuclear medicine, pediatric neuroradiology and interventional radiology. The successful student will appreciate the radiologist's role in the care of the patient and how to interact with radiologists, as well as the appropriate work up of common pediatric conditions. There are mandatory Friday case-based classroom sessions. RAD-5640: Neuroradiology Prerequisite: Diagnostic Radiology is required. (Not offered in July or December) The month will allow a broad exposure to the field of neuroradiology with a strong focus on review of clinically relevant neuroanatomy. The primary role of the student will be as an observer, working alongside residents, fellows and faculty as imaging studies are interpreted and procedures are performed. Students will be responsible for delivering a single informal presentation during the month. The course is aimed to be a more in-depth experience for students interested in fields that utilize neuroimaging. Workstation shadowing is coupled with self-directed study for deeper exploration of specific topics, allowing for broad case exposure and culminating in a case presentation that complements the student's intended path. Visiting students should be aware that the course is essentially off-site with a large self-learning component, which has housing, transportation, and other financial/logistic implications. The course is not introductory level and does not have a classroom/didactic component, so students should have relevant baseline knowledge in either Radiology or a Neuroradiology-related field. Nor is it an acting internship – as the main Neuroradiology reading room is not at the hospital, there is minimal exposure to the department outside of the Neuroradiology section. RAD-5650: Adult Interventional Radiology Interventional Radiology is an exciting, fast paced, advanced specialty performing minimally invasive procedures on virtually every organ in the body. This course provides an immediate immersion into the daily life of an IR. Students will be involved in every aspect of treating patients, including outpatient clinic visits, researching and working up the patient the day of the procedure, presenting the patient in morning rounds, consenting and performing physical exams, scrubbing in on the procedure, admitting and post procedural care, inpatient rounds, and long term follow-up. They will also have the option to visit other specialty areas of IR, including Pediatric IR, and read CTA/MRA with our noninvasive vascular specialists. Students will be required to research and present one case report while on the service. The typical day lasts from 7 am to 6 pm and there are no call responsibilities. Typical procedures include angioplasty and stent placement in the arteries and veins, embolization of bleeding, embolization of tumors, uterine fibroid embolization, bronchial artery embolization, gonadal vein embolization, chemo-embolization, percutaneous treatment of tumors (ablation), placement of nephrostomy, biliary, gastrostomy, venous catheters, and TIPS. RADO-5620: Radiation Oncology Requirement: Statement of Interest This 4 week clinical rotation in radiation oncology is designed for students who are interested in pursuing a career in radiation oncology. Students are integrated into the clinical workflow. They are assigned to work one on one with individual attendings covering all aspects of radiation oncology including malignancies of the head and neck, lung, breast, gastrointestinal, gynecological, prostate and brain. Students work with radiation oncology residents in the initial evaluation of patients, formulation of treatment, supervision of treatment, and follow-up evaluations. Students will learn indications and techniques for radiation therapy. With each new patient, the student will be expected to go in to see the patient first and obtain a basic history and physical. This will be presented to the resident who will then review these findings directly with the attending. The clinical team (resident/attending/student) will then discuss treatment options with the patient and formulate a treatment plan. At the conclusion of this course students will be able to take a focused oncologic history, perform a pertinent exam, and understand the basics of diagnosis, staging, and treatment options for cancer patients. They will learn about the multidisciplinary nature of oncologic care. At the end of the rotation students are required to give an oral presentation at the departmental teaching seminar. Surgical Electives SURG-5614: Surgical Critical Care This rotation will provide trainees with a variety of medically complicated patients, including postoperative surgery patients. Surgery Residents on Service: PGY-1, PGY-2. From the course catalog: The Surgical Critical Care Advanced Clinical Elective provides students with a multidisciplinary approach to care of the critically ill surgical patient. The units are very active critical care facilities with state-of-the-art monitoring and support technology. The course content emphasizes a physiologic approach to the care of critically ill general, vascular, transplant, geriatric, oncology, and emergency surgical patients. Students will gain experience with invasive hemodynamic monitoring, mechanical ventilation, enteral/parenteral nutrition, surgical infectious disease, and management of vasoactive medications. Topics such as cost containment, resource utilization, and medical ethics are an integral part of daily intensive care management. The patient care service consists of a surgical or anesthesia attending physician, a surgical critical care fellow, mid-level surgical/anesthesia residents, and surgical interns. Other staff available in the unit includes clinical pharmacists, respiratory therapists, and nurse practitioners. Teaching rounds are made each morning with didactic lectures and case-discussions Monday-Thursday. Friday morning attendance of surgical grand rounds and resident teaching conference is mandatory. A course syllabus containing management protocols and educational objectives is provided to all registrants. Evaluation of the student’s performance is based on clinical knowledge, basic science application, integration into the team, and progression in learning throughout rotation. Mid-rotation and final evaluations of each student will be conducted by the critical care attendings, critical care fellow assigned to the unit, and the course director. SURG-5617: Colon and Rectal Surgery (Not offered in June or December) The rotation on the Colon and Rectal Surgery service allows for both inpatient and outpatient surgical evaluation and are. Surgery Residents on Service: PGY-1, PGY-3, PGY-4, PGY-5 From the course catalog: The Colorectal Surgery ACE focuses on the care of patients suffering from diseases and disorders of the colon, rectum and anus. This includes such diseases as colorectal cancer, anal cancer, inflammatory bowel disease, diverticulitis, colon polyps, and benign anorectal conditions. The goal of the rotation is to broaden the student’s understanding about the pathophysiology, clinical presentation, work-up and treatment of common colorectal diseases. The students will be exposed to all aspects of the care of the patient including evaluation in the clinic, pre-op teaching, operative management, post op care and discharge. Students will see a variety of surgical techniques including laparoscopic, open, and robotic cases as well as advanced endoscopic procedures and anorectal cases. Students will function as part of the colorectal team and will be assigned patients that they will follow throughout the duration of their hospital stay. They will be expected to participate on rounds as well as attend/present at the weekly colorectal surgery conference. SURG-5618: Hepatobiliary Our goal is to help you gain experience and expertise in the treatment of a variety of hepatobiliary disorders and liver transplant. Surgery Residents on Service: PGY-1, PGY-3, PGY-4 From the course catalog: The hepatobiliary and liver transplant surgery rotation includes the full spectrum of benign and malignant disease of the liver, pancreas and bile ducts. This service allows exposure for rotating students to complex hepatobiliary anatomy and pathophysiology, including liver failure. Unique to this rotation is the opportunity to participate in organ procurements, a very popular operation amongst surgical students. Abdominal organ procurement offers unparalleled anatomic exposure to the abdomen and pelvis. Rotating students will participate directly in these operations and they have the right of first refusal on each procurement. As there is ample opportunity to see these operations, a waiting list is compiled for other students to travel for these operations, which are often off site. Students will have the opportunity to function as an integral member within the surgical resident clinical teams, as well as attend weekly clinics and teaching conferences, including Hepatobiliary Conference, Liver Transplant Selection Committee and Liver Team Walk Rounds. The course will focus on enhancing student clinical practice-based learning skills. Students will have the opportunity to (1) deepen their understanding of the complex anatomy and pathophysiology of the liver, (2) learn the basic principles of multidisciplinary management of liver failure, (3) review the differential diagnoses and therapeutic strategies for the liver mass and (4) understand the numerous complications seen after hepatobiliary and liver transplant procedures. Additionally, students will not be expected to stay for overnight call on a rotating schedule. However, given the emergency nature of procurements and transplants, after hour effort is common, as dictated by the on-call attending and resident staff. SURG-5620: Neurological Surgery (only offered July – October) Neurosurgery is a fast-paced, challenging field dedicated to the comprehensive treatment of critically ill patients with neurologic diseases. It is an incredibly diverse specialty, incorporating treatment of children and adults suffering from CNS tumors, cerebrovascular disease, movement disorders, spine disorders, peripheral nerve diseases, and trauma. Each student will spend their 4 weeks rotating through the 4 different neurosurgical services to gain a broad exposure to the field. Students will take part in the care of inpatients, the workup of consults, and the technical aspects of a variety of bedside and operative procedures. They will also attend several outpatient clinics and take overnight call with the junior resident on a Q4 schedule. Students will participate in career development sessions designed to prepare them for the residency application process and will give several short presentations to the clinical teams and the department throughout the rotation. SURG-5630: Cardiac Surgery Requirement: Letter of Interest Cardiac Surgery is a rotation designed to introduce trainees to the principles of cardiac surgery management, specifically to patient assessment in the preoperative and postoperative periods. Surgery Residents on Service: None. There is a fellow. From the course catalog: The cardiac surgery rotation will allow students exposure to the diagnosis, evaluation, and surgical management of coronary heart disease, heart valve disease, and aortic disease in adult patients. Students will follow an apprenticeship model with an attending cardiac surgeon each week where they will have the opportunity to evaluate patients in clinic and understand their anatomy and physiology, clinical evaluation, and decisions on management. They will be introduced to cardiac echocardiography, chest CT, cardiac MRI, and cardiac catheterization. Students will be involved in cardiac surgery operative procedures and will be expected to follow the management of the patient in the post operative period in the CVICU and stepdown unit. Students will have opportunities to observe acute aortic dissection repair, ventricular assist device implantation, heart transplant, and/or organ recovery. At the end of the rotation the student will be expected to give a short patient presentation at the conclusion of the rotation. Visiting students: this course is not directly associated with the general surgery program and is not associated with selecting medical students for general surgery interviews. SURG-5632: Thoracic Surgery During this rotation, trainees will better understand the pathophysiology of thoracic diseases including lung, esophagus, and chest wall diseases. Trainees will identify the general risks and complications of thoracic surgery operations, and learn the preoperative and postoperative care of patients undergoing thoracic surgery operations. Surgery Residents on Service: PGY-2, PGY-4 From the course catalog: The Vanderbilt Thoracic Surgery Advanced Clinical Experience will introduce students to preoperative workup, basic thoracic surgery operative skills, and postoperative care of general thoracic surgery patients. Students will have the opportunity to participate in open, minimally invasive and robotic procedures as well as the busy lung transplant program. Students will be able to expand on previously learned surgical techniques with highlights including opportunities to suture in the OR and chest tube placement. SURG-5660: Pediatric Surgery This rotation is designed to introduce trainees to the management of surgical diseases of infants and children. Surgery Residents on Service: PGY-1, PGY-3, PGY-4 (at times) From the course catalog: Pediatric surgeons provide care to a diverse patient population including neonates, children and even some young adults. Patients are in a variety of healthcare settings including the outpatient clinic, emergency room, trauma bay, inpatient wards, pediatric intensive care unit (PICU), neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), and of course, the operating room. The course will focus on honing the students’ clinical skills in accurate history taking, clinical assessment of both acute and chronically ill neonates and children, developing an appropriate operative (or non-operative) plan, participation in the operative management of these same patients and following their post-operative progress until discharge. The students will have the opportunity to (1) improve their knowledge of the common pathologies encountered in a pediatric surgical practice, (2) broaden their understanding of the surgical management of these problems, (3) gain firsthand experience with the depth and breadth of a clinically busy pediatric surgical service and (4) mentor younger students. During the rotation, students will spend time with the team in clinic, in the operating rooms, on the wards and seeing new consults. Students will be expected to present new consults and clinic patients in a concise, informed manner to the fellows and attendings. Additionally, students will be expected to stay for overnight call at least 4 times during a 4-week rotation with 1 over a weekend. SURG-5670: Surgical Oncology and Endocrine Surgery Our goal is to help you gain experience and expertise in the treatment of a variety of oncology and endocrine disorders. Surgery Residents on Service: PGY-1 (O/E), PGY-3 (Endocrinology), PGY-4 (at times), PGY-5 (Surg Onc) From the course catalog: The Advanced Clinical Experience (ACE) in Surgical Oncology offers students a broad and detailed clinical experience in the treatment of malignancies. Emphasis will be on the multidisciplinary management of a variety of malignancies including those of the liver and biliary tract, pancreas, gastrointestinal tract, retroperitoneum, breast, skin and soft tissue and endocrine systems. Students will be active participants both in the inpatient (including the operating room and floor) and outpatient settings and participate in several educational conferences including multidisciplinary tumor board, surgical oncology conferences and others and Vanderbilt University Hospital. Students will be expected to take overnight call four times during the four-week rotation. SURG-5680: Plastic Surgery Requirement: Personal Statement and Letter of Recommendation Plastic surgery is a broad field with subspecialties that include craniofacial/pediatric plastic surgery, microsurgery, hand and peripheral nerve surgery, breast reconstruction, burn, and aesthetics. Plastic surgeons treat patients of all ages and work on almost every part of the body from head to toe. Phase 3 medical students interested in pursuing a career in plastic surgery often rotate through the 4-week Plastic Surgery ACE. During this rotation, students spend one 1-week on each "Pod" or clinical domain (rounding with the resident team, attending cases and clinics, and participating in Pod-specific didactics). Our clinical services are divided by domains including Hand/Nerve Surgery, General Reconstruction, Pediatric/Craniofacial Surgery, and Breast/Aesthetic Surgery. Students are encouraged to take an active role in patient care, and expected to follow patients longitudinally during their rotation. Students are encouraged to utilize reference resources such as Essentials of Plastic Surgery (Janis), or the Michigan Manual of Plastic Surgery (Brown) to prepare for cases and clinics. Students pursuing careers in other specialties who want to gain a better understanding of the role of plastic surgery in the multi-disciplinary treatment of complex pathologies, such as cleft care, limb salvage, or oncologic reconstruction, can tailor their experience to maximize their learning. Students are encouraged to have specific learning goals, so that we can appropriately focus their time to gain an in-depth understanding of their field of interest. SURG-5840: Trauma (only offered October – December) The trauma program at Vanderbilt is unique in that trainees gain exposure to the problems of both urban and rural trauma care. Surgery Residents on Service: PGY-1, PGY-2, PGY-4 From the course catalog: The trauma Advanced Clinical Elective (ACE) allows students to follow injured patients from the moment they arrive until discharge. This includes management in all settings, ICU, floor, clinic and the option of time in the comprehensive traumatic brain injury clinic. Students will be introduced to high-level procedure-based situations including central venous access, tube thoracostomies, bronchoscopy, advanced suturing techniques and operative management of the trauma patient. Expectations will focus on the complex management of patients including coordination of care with other subspecialties, identifying and managing critical care issues such as ventilator management, massive resuscitation efforts, complexities of organ failure and sepsis, end-of-life decisions and organ donation. Opportunities for both day and night coverage will allow the student to obtain a complete understanding of the field of trauma (the #1 cause of death for all patients age 1-45). Urology Elective UROL-5640: Urology Requirement: Personal statement (student upload) LOR is recommended, not required. Letters should be emailed to abby.s.taylor@vumc.org (Only offered July – October. Application deadline is March 20th, 2026 for all months of this elective only. Offers will go out by 3/27/2026.) This Advanced Clinical Elective (ACE) will encompass the care of the surgery patients admitted to the Urology service. The student will be expected to function as a member of the team at a supervised level for patient management and communication with other healthcare providers. This will include preparing the admission history and physical examination, entering orders, writing daily progress notes, presenting patients on daily work rounds, participating in surgical procedures, and coordinating discharge planning. Students will be additionally be given opportunity for outpatient experiences in the clinics. Students will be expected to participate in select weekend rounds and assist with triage of consults for the inpatient service. Visiting students are encouraged to apply EARLY. The Urology department will begin reviewing applications and extending invitations, on a rolling basis starting March 22, 2020. Academic Calendar for Visiting Student Electives Section 06 June 8 - July 3, 2026 Section 07 July 6‐31, 2026 Section 08 Aug. 3‐28, 2026 Section 09 Aug. 31‐ Sept. 25, 2026 Section 10 Sept. 28‐Oct. 23, 2026 Section 11 Oct. 26‐Nov. 20, 2026 Section 12 Nov. 23‐Dec.18, 2026 Connect with Us Please note, we are not able to provide individual application status updates. Contact us with questions about affiliation agreements or other visiting student requirements. Email Us Vanderbilt University About VUSM Academic Programs Apply News School of Medicine – Basic Sciences Alumni Giving Eskind Family Biomedical Library and Learning Center 2209 Garland Avenue | Nashville, TN 37240 615-322-7221 • Contact Us Vanderbilt University’s Online Privacy Notice Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Instagram YouTube TikTok Flickr Vanderbilt University is committed to the principle of equal opportunity. Vanderbilt University does not discriminate against individuals on the basis of their race, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, religion, color, national or ethnic origin, age, disability, military service, or genetic information in its administration of educational policies, programs, or activities; admissions policies; scholarship and loan programs; athletic or other University-administered programs; or employment. Accessibility information . Vanderbilt®, Vanderbilt University® and the Vanderbilt logos are trademarks of The Vanderbilt University. Site Development: Digital Strategies (Communications and Marketing.) &copy; 2026