Wyckoff Heights Medical Center | Trusted Brooklyn Hospital Since 1889 Skip to content Pediatric ED 3D Tour Search for: Search Menu Patients & Visitors Getting Care Departments Medical Specialties Ambulatory/Outpatient Healthcare Equity Age-Friendly Care Find a Doctor Hospitalization Preparing for Hospitalization Social Work &#038; Discharge Planning Patient Advocate Managing My Visit Schedule Appointment Billing &#038; Payment Legal Language Assistance Request Medical Records Visitors Visiting Hours Gift Shop Cafeteria Chaplaincy Directions &#038; Parking Health Professionals Careers Patient Portal News Events About Leadership Team Wyckoff in the Community Special Projects WIC Program Community Service Plan Regulatory Services Vision and Goals Award-winning Care Directions &#038; Parking Blog Donate Top Donors Pediatric ED 3D Tour CLOSE Your Health, Our Priority in Brooklyn and Queens Find a Department Find a Doctor Welcome to Wyckoff Heights Medical Center OUR MISSION: To provide excellence in care through prevention, education and treatment in a safe environment. What Can We Help You With? Departments Find Doc Appointment Visitors Price Transparency / Shoppable Services Donate Award-winning Care Wyckoff Height Medical Center has received the American College of Cardiology’s NCDR Chest Pain ̶ MI Registry Platinum Performance Achievement Award for 2025! We are proud to be one of only 323 hospitals nationwide to receive this distinguished honor. About Wyckoff Provider Spotlight Director of Neurology Steven Smith, MD, FAES, has been named by New York Super Doctors® Rising Stars as a top doctor for 2025. Thanks to his leadership, the department opened its EEG laboratory, providing 24/7 EEG services, and achieved WHMC’s first Primary Stroke Center designation. See More Wyckoff Heights Medical Center Opens Newly Renovated Pediatric Emergency Department El Centro Médico Wyckoff Heights inaugura su Departamento de Emergencias Pediátricas recientemente renovado. See More Dr. Daniel Faustin Appointed to Serve On the MMMAC El Doctor Daniel Faustin servirá en el consejo asesor sobre mortalidad y morbilidad materna. See More Our Departments Over three dozen medical departments and nearly 1,900 physicians, nurses, and support personnel support Wyckoff’s mission of providing the highest quality healthcare services to a diverse community. See More Our Medical Specialties In addition to the overall, high quality healthcare that Wyckoff provides to the community, there are several more medical specialties we offer that recognize specific needs of patients who utilize the hospital’s services. See More Health Professionals We are committed to providing the community with exemplary medical professionals by hiring qualified individuals for all departments and providing ongoing skills development and comprehensive training. See More Our Vision for Our Community Ralph L. Ruggiero I am privileged to lead an accomplished faculty, staff, and resident team, all of whom are focused on our mission to improve the lives and health of the women in our community. The department is committed to providing the highest quality obstetrical care, women’s healthcare, cancer screening and treatment, and all other reproductive services. We pride ourselves in providing compassionate, respectful, family-centric care that serves a diverse population of women and encourages close collaboration across clinical disciplines. Our comprehensive OB/GYN residency program ensures that future generations of exceptional healthcare providers are available to serve our community. Ralph L. Ruggiero, MD, FACOG, FACS Chairman Mounzer Tchelebi, MD The Department of Radiation Oncology at Wyckoff Heights is one of the most dynamic fields in medicine for cancer care. It is dedicated to the service of its community of patients and their families. Our mission is to provide excellence in care through prevention, education, and treatment in a safe environment. Mounzer Tchelebi, MD Chairman Gustavo Del Toro, MD We are dedicated to the health of all children at every stage of their development. Our qualified and highly trained pediatricians, nurse practitioners and our nursing team are skilled at diagnosing, treating, and managing wide range of illnesses in babies, toddlers, teenagers, and young adults. Our mission for every child in our care is to grow up happy, healthy, and physically fit. Gustavo Del Toro, MD Chief Medical Officer Our Story Make a Difference in the Lives of Our Patients Our hospital depends on the generosity of our friends and partners to continue its healing endeavors. We deeply appreciate individual gifts of any size. Donate Patient Testimonials WHMC’s mission and commitment to safe, quality service enables us to become the premier health care provider for the culturally diverse community we serve. Our patients agree. See More Patients &#038; Visitors Departments Find a Doctor Patient Portal Billing &#038; Payment Price Transparency Healthcare Equity About Health Professionals Careers News Events Follow Us on Facebook Follow Us on Instagram Wyckoff Contact Us Directions, Parking, &#038; Locations Donate Copyright &copy; 2026 Wyckoff | Powered by Wyckoff