Visiting Students Skip to main content &times; College of Medicine About About the College College History College of Medicine Dean Leadership Department Chairs Administrative Offices Body Donation Program Daniel Drake Medal Latest News Education Overview College of Medicine Programs Medical Student Education Graduate Medical Education Doctoral & Masters Education Undergraduate Education Continuing Medical Education/CCPD Education Resources Research Overview Leadership Clinical Trials Office of Clinical Research Core Facilities Internal Funding Recognition Grant Writing Policies Research Art Contest Departments Anesthesiology Biostatistics, Health Informatics & Data Sciences Cancer Biology Dermatology Emergency Medicine Environmental & Public Health Sciences Family and Community Medicine Internal Medicine Medical Education Molecular & Cellular Biosciences Neurology and Rehabilitation Medicine Neurosurgery Obstetrics and Gynecology Ophthalmology Orthopaedic Surgery Otolaryngology Pathology Pediatrics Pharmacology, Physiology, and Neurobiology Psychiatry and Behavioral Neuroscience Radiation Oncology Radiology Surgery Urology Institutes & Centers All Institutes and Centers Addiction Center Area Health Education Center Addiction Center: Research Center for Health Informatics Hoxworth Blood Center Center for Integrative Health Center for Developmental Disabilities UC Center for Cardiovascular Research UC Gardner Neuroscience Institute University of Cincinnati Cancer Center Admissions Doctoral Degree Admissions Fellowship Admissions Master Degree Admissions Residency Admissions Connections Dual Admissions MD Admissions MD/PhD Program MD/MPH Program MD/MBA Dual Degree Hazardous Substances Certificate Undergrad Medical Sciences Undergrad Public Health Clinical Care Search By: Site Search Last Name Keyword Specialty Search Search Education / Medical Student Education / Office of Curriculum Management and Integration / Visiting Students Office of Curriculum Management and Integration Menu Home Academic Calendars Integrated Curriculum Overview Phase 1: Pre-Clerkship Phase 2: Clerkship Year Competency Based Phase 3 : Post-Clerkship Program Competencies Curriculum Governance Overview Committee Structure & Membership Faculty Resources and scholarship Overview Faculty Development Faculty Teaching Awards Cincinnati Medicine Teaching Module Student Handbook Pathways of Distinction Overview MD-MPH Dual Degree Program Student Research Physician and Society Service-Learning Experience Physician and Society Community Advocacy Projects MSSP Program IMPAcT Program Visiting Students Contact Us/Staff Med OneStop Login Student Handbook Medical Student Curriculum LEO My COM Course Evals Intranet Login Contact Us Office of Curriculum Management and Integration Medical Sciences Building Room G453 - G456 231 Albert Sabin Way PO Box 670520 Cincinnati, OH 45267-0520 Mail Location: 0520 Phone: 513-558-1795 Fax: 513-558-4949 Visiting Students Adherence to Clinical Placement Guidelines Visiting student experiences at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine have clinical and/or external placements that are a requirement for successful away rotation completion. To the extent permitted by law, students enrolled in such experiences will be expected to comply with all rules, policies, guidelines, and requirements of any third-party placement, including but not limited to, vaccination and background check requirements. Any student’s failure to comply with such third-party rules, policies, guidelines, or requirements may result in the student not being able to successfully complete an away rotation. The University of Cincinnati College of Medicine offers electives for medical students from other U.S. medical schools. A maximum of two four-week electives can be taken for a total of eight weeks. Our senior electives are designed specifically for students who have already completed one full year of in-hospital clinical training prior to an anticipated elective. It is necessary that visiting students first complete all Clinical Core Clerkships before participating in these electives. Prospective applicants who have already graduated from medical school are not eligible to participate. Details of the rules, regulations, and requirements for this program are included in the Visiting Student Policy (PDF). Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) online application Domestic Visiting Medical Students To Apply: Please complete and submit a Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) online application for your preferred electives and dates. For Academic Year 2026-2027, electives will be visible and applications accepted in VSLO beginning March 1, 2026. Departments will begin reviewing and accepting applications on March 15, 2026. VSLO application acceptance offers will be communicated to applicants directly from the applicable University of Cincinnati department. Remit a one-time, non-refundable fee of $166 (includes $150 processing fee and $16 BBP insurance fee), payable 30 days in advance of the start of the rotation. A complete checklist with application requirements can be found by downloading the Checklist for Domestic Students (PDF). If you have any questions, please inquire at UCCOMVSLO@ucmail.uc.edu . International Visiting Medical Students We are not currently accepting international students visiting for clinical electives. We encourage all applicants to periodically check back with us at UCCOM Visiting Student Information or UC Global Health Learning Environment Policies UCCOM strives to provide medical students with a learning environment that is conducive to their professional growth. In our ongoing efforts to continually monitor and support positive behaviors in the learning environment, we have the following avenues available for reporting experienced or witnessed negative behaviors toward medical students in our learning environments. A nonymous L earning E nvironment R eporting T ool ( ALERT ) ALERT reporting Anonymous and confidential telephone reporting line 800-889-1547. All UCCOM and visiting medical students are encouraged to review the Student Handbook with specific attention to the following policies and procedures pertaining to the learning environment: Principles Guiding Interactions between Teachers and Learners in Medicine (PDF) Medical Student Honor Code (PDF) Mistreatment/Harassment Policy (PDF) Grade Appeal Process (PDF) Non-discrimination Policy The Office of Student Affairs is available to all UCCOM and visiting medical students to discuss any concerns/questions related to the learning environment. Needlestick or Body Fluid Exposure If you experience a needlestick or body fluid exposure while on rotation, please visit the Emergency Exposure website for the procedure to be followed and refer to the Policy on Prevention of Bodily Fluid/Bloodborne Pathogen Infection and Treatment Following Exposure in the Student Handbook . Please remember that you purchased the UC Blood-Borne Pathogen Insurance through our student health insurance program. If you have additional questions after hours, call the Needlestick Hotline at 513-584-STIX (4457). Med OneStop Login Student Handbook Medical Student Curriculum LEO My COM Course Evals Intranet Login Contact Us Office of Curriculum Management and Integration Medical Sciences Building Room G453 - G456 231 Albert Sabin Way PO Box 670520 Cincinnati, OH 45267-0520 Mail Location: 0520 Phone: 513-558-1795 Fax: 513-558-4949 University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | © Copyright Information | 2025 University of Cincinnati