Home | JPS Health Network Skip to main content Secondary Menu About JPS Board Meetings Food Onsite: Main Campus Newsroom History Leadership Public Information Team Members Community Community Outreach JPS Foundation Spiritual Care & Ethics Volunteer Opportunities Vendors Bond Program Medical Professionals Academic Affairs Center for Epidemiology & Healthcare Research Doctoral Internship in Psychology Fellowship Programs Office of Clinical Research Residency Programs Texas Child Mental Health Care Consortium Careers Master Facility Plan MyChart Price Transparency Search Search Main navigation Get Care Locations Services Telemedicine Visitation Guidelines Patient Tools Community Resources Health Library MyChart Resources Patient E-Greetings Patient Education Patient Feedback Patient Records Prescription Refills Financial Resources Eligibility & Enrollment Financial Assistance Insurance Plans JPS Connection No Surprise Billing Price Transparency Find a Doctor Vendors Know Where to Go: Assess your symptoms and find the location that’s right for you! Stay safe and healthy this cold and flu season. Click here to learn about your care options. The JPS Emergency department is currently seeing a high volume of patients. Wait times may be longer than usual. Click here for alternative ways to access care. JPS Health Network is currently experiencing a network outage. If you need to contact your provider during this downtime, please use the messaging feature in your MyChart account . If this is an emergency, please call 911. Click here for information on COVID-19, vaccines, and patient visitation. New Bond Program RFQs have been posted. Click here to view open RFPs/RFBs/RFQs. Winter Weather Update: Click here for more information. Subscribe to Find a Location Search 582 BEDS 25 + CLINICS 1 M+ PATIENT ENCOUNTERS Services JPS Connection Eligibility Rx Refill JPS Health Network Expands Access to Healing Through Recuperative Care Program for Unhoused Patients The JPS Health Network Recuperative Care Program is a program established to bridge the gap between hospital care and full recovery and ensures that healing doesn’t stop after a patient is discharged. Compassionate Experts: The Power of JPS Nurses On Wednesday, May 6, JPS Health Network hosted its annual Nurse Award Celebration to honor our nurses and their commitment to providing compassionate and high-quality care to our patients. First Moments Matter: JPS and Fort Worth Fire Improve Care for Newborns JPS partnered with Fort Worth EMS to improve how newborns are kept warm during transport, helping protect some of the community’s most vulnerable patients from the very start. Care at the Doorstep: How JPS Brings Healthcare Home At JPS Health Network, caring for our community means removing barriers to care and meeting patients where they are. When Care Is a Calling: A JPS Retiree Returns to Volunteer At JPS Health Network, our mission is to transform healthcare delivery for the communities we serve, and our volunteers play a vital role in bringing that mission to life Previous Next View All Stories 206 LANGUAGES TRANSLATED 162 K+ ER VISITS 4500 + BABIES BORN Make an Appointment » Virtual Visit Now » Footer menu CONTACT US 817-702-3431 1500 S. Main Street Fort Worth, TX 76104 ABOUT US Careers Contact Master Facility Plan MyChart Vendors SITE INFORMATION Accessibility Legal Statements Privacy Policy Site Map FINANCIAL Price Transparency MRF (txt) Acclaim Give to JPS Vendors Yes to JPS &copy; 2024 JPS Health Network &copy; 2024 JPS Health Network On September 22, 2025, Tarrant County Commissioners Court will adopt the Tarrant County Hospital District’s 2025 tax rate. The Commissioners Court has proposed a tax rate of $0.1650 which is below the no-new-revenue rate and will collect less taxes than the previous tax year.