Education Programs - CommonSpirit Health International Skip to content Toggle Navigation Clinical specialties Cardiovascular services Cancer care Neurological care Robotic surgery Transplant services Facilities Baylor St. Luke&#8217;s Medical Center Norton Thoracic Institute St. Joseph’s Hospital and Medical Center Texas Heart Institute Virginia Mason Medical Center International patient services About us Meet our team Remote second opinions Collaborative opportunities Contact us Contact us Education Programs wcc_admin 2025-10-02T22:27:29+00:00 Education Programs CommonSpirit Health International™ offers bespoke virtual and face-to-face education and training programs through its affiliated partners and facilities. Contact us Online education: certificate & degree programs Unlock the full potential of your workforce with OpusVi™ . Offering professional development and higher education courses that have been created specifically for health care, OpusVi partners with top academic institutions and thought-leading industry professionals to enhance operational efficiency across health systems and provide the highest quality of patient care. OpusVi addresses educational shortages in the entirety of the health care workforce, including nursing, leadership, analytics, project management, and entrepreneurship. Face-to-face education programs CommonSpirit International offers in-person education programs delivered in collaboration with our affiliates. We work closely with global health care organizations to identify their top talent development, clinical advancement, and business needs to create customizable education and training programs. CommonSpirit International’s Clinical Observation Program is designed to give international clinical professionals—including physicians, nurses, and allied health staff—an informal opportunity to shadow their American colleagues in our affiliated facilities in the United States. Observation Program participants are able to witness best practices and systems and processes in a variety of real-world settings over a 4- to 12-week period including: Patient care delivered in a variety of care settings (hospitals, clinics, surgery centers, etc.) Best practices Clinical operations (including procedures, surgeries, tumor boards) Administrative functions Continuing education events (symposiums, grand rounds, conferences) Clinical research CommonSpirit International also offers in-person education and training services where you, our partners, are located. Education and training opportunities are fully customizable based on your need—from advising on quality management, reporting metrics, and performance improvement, to working hand-in-hand with your clinical teams on best practices in patient care. Whether in the form of lending our clinical expertise through on-site education and training programs in specific clinical and non-clinical areas, symposiums, conferences, or other bespoke products, CommonSpirit International can serve as a collaborative partner to further your business goals and strategies. Federal regulations prevent clinical observers from having patient care responsibilities or involvement in any form of volunteer research. Request a consultation CommonSpirit International is at your service and here to help. Connect with one of our International Liaisons to get started. I am a patient I am a physician I am a potential partner © Copyright CommonSpirit Health International Legal & Privacy Notices Page load link Go to Top