UTMB - The University of Texas Medical Branch Skip to main content Go to site menu Jump to page footer Explore UTMB Health Care Education Research UTMB Support Areas Giving Contacts Alerts Search Close Search Screen Search UTMB Web Sites Search UTMB Google UTMB Health The University of Texas Medical Branch Skip Menu Navigate: Select to Navigate... - Health System - Academics - Research & Innovation - Business and Support Areas - Giving - Contacts Health System Academics Research & Innovation Business and Support Areas Giving Contacts Menu Pause button The University of Texas Medical Branch, UTMB Where Purpose Meets Passion. Patient Care Education Research Innovation Get to Know the New UTMB 100+ Locations across Southeast Texas and growing 130+ Years educating health professionals and serving communities 15,000+ Professionals advancing health, education, and research $3.6+ Billion annual operating budget Somerson, Jeremy Anabor-Onoche, Omegie Requena, Lilia Excellence in Patient Care Purpose and passion come together in every patient interaction at UTMB. Here, caregivers learn what exceptional care means and carry it forward&mdash;healing patients in our communities and around the world. Get Care Find a Doctor MyChart Login Grade “A” Safety Rating Educating the Future of Health Our students learn by doing. Across five schools, students engage with global opportunities, pioneering research, and a network of peers and alumni who are redefining what&rsquo;s possible in medicine. John Sealy School of Medicine Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences School of Nursing School of Health Professions School of Public and Population Health Physician Assistant Studies Moody Medical Library Faculty Resources Innovation Starts Here Innovation at UTMB thrives through collaboration, technology, and a shared drive to turn ideas into impact. Connect with mentors, explore new ventures, and stay inspired by headline-making advances that shape the future of health. See How We Use AI in Health – see Initiatives Office of Innovation Explore Our Labs, Centers, & Institutes Advancing Discovery In state-of-the-art laboratories, we&rsquo;re unlocking new knowledge that leads directly to better care and stronger communities. View Research Experts Explore Research Resources Invest in What's Next Your support fuels the discoveries, learning, and care that define UTMB. Give Today News & Highlights UTMB researchers identify enzyme that prevents chromosome breaks during DNA copying May 15, 2026, 09:00 AM by Staff When kids talk about gun violence, other kids listen May 12, 2026, 11:12 AM $4 million Sealy & Smith Foundation gift launches nursing scholarship and workforce program at UTMB May 7, 2026, 08:17 AM Clear Lake, League City Hospital campuses earn ‘A’ safety ratings from The Leapfrog Group May 6, 2026, 07:39 AM UTMB specialty pharmacy team presents workflow innovations at Epic XGM May 5, 2026, 10:38 AM Read the Latest News Follow Our Journey Shaping Health Today Across Texas and beyond, we're transforming how communities experience care. From designing healing environments to expanding access and advancing discovery, our people bring innovation, compassion, and expertise together to improve lives every day. Read More Through the Ages Since 1891, UTMB has led Texas in health care, education, research, and innovation. Our History Toward the Future We&rsquo;re building the next chapter in a story defined by progress, purpose, and care for all. Our Plan Work With Purpose Join a team driven by excellence and united in caring for others. Explore Careers Close Off-Canvas Mobile Menu Search Submit Search Query UTMB Google Explore UTMB Health Care Education Research UTMB Support Areas Giving Contacts Alerts Contact Us UTMB The University of Texas Medical Branch About Us Map News Careers Giving iUTMB Intranet UTMB Health Facebook UTMB Health Twitter UTMB Health Instagram UTMB Health LinkeIn Member, Texas Medical Center&reg; Patient Care Find a Doctor Find Health Care Hospital & Clinic Locations MyChart Patient Portal Visitor Information Education Our Schools Enrollment Services Student Services Office of the Provost Faculty Resources Research Research Resources UTMB Research Experts Clinical Trials Core Research Facilities Policies & Guidelines Innovation Office of Innovation Artificial Intelligence Commercializations Diagnostic Center Vision & Mission Member, Texas Medical Center&reg; Privacy Policy & Required Links Accessibility WWW Login Intranet Login &copy; The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston