Graduate Medical Education | Education | Medical College of Wisconsin Skip to Main Content Menu Search Patient Care Find A Doctor MyChart Login Request an Appointment Online Pay My Bill Care Locations Contact Us Education Medical School Prospective Students Campuses Graduate School Prospective Students Programs Pharmacy School Prospective Students Programs School & Programs Master of Science in Anesthesia (MSA) Program Office of Postdoctoral Education Residency and Fellowship Programs APP Fellowship Programs Administrative Fellowship Admissions Financial Aid and Tuition Registrar's Office Academic and Student Services Continuing & Professional Development (CME) Commencement Research Research Centers and Institutes Office of Research Cores and Shared Resources Translational Research (CTSI) Clinical Trials Office Project Wonder Community Community Connection Community Engagement Institute for Health & Humanity ThriveOn Collaboration Advancing a Healthier Wisconsin Endowment About MCW Leadership Maps and Directions Careers Accreditation Alumni Association Contact Us Find A Doctor Departments & Centers Stories Giving Careers Graduate Medical Education Browse Overview Residency & Fellowship Programs Toggle Subnav View Residency & Fellowship Programs Benefits, Conditions, and Terms of Employment Clinical Fellowships Communicable Diseases Vaccination Requirement Drug and Alcohol Testing Fellowship Research Opportunities Residency Programs Selective Service Requirement Visa Information Housestaff Onboarding Toggle Subnav View Housestaff Onboarding Frequently Asked Questions Housestaff Life Toggle Subnav View Housestaff Life Housing Rental Information Resident Spouse/Significant Other Association Underrepresented in Medicine Institutional Policies Resources Toggle Subnav View Resources Licensure Process Guide (PDF) Licensure Timeline NPI Application Guide Professional Liability Home / Education / Graduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education at the Medical College of Wisconsin Because the pursuit of knowledge is everlasting. As a major academic medical center, and the largest research institution in the Milwaukee metro area, the Medical College of Wisconsin is a distinguished leader in the advanced training of physicians, researchers, pharmacists and health professionals. Together with its top-tier partner institutions, the Medical College of Wisconsin Affiliated Hospitals (MCWAH) puts you at the forefront of advancement that’s improving the vitality of society. Learn about Graduate Medical Education Residency and Fellowship Programs The Medical College of Wisconsin Affiliated Hospitals (MCWAH) offers more than 100 residency and fellowship programs, including 93 ACGME-accredited programs (residencies and fellowships), 32 unaccredited programs (fellowships) and 9 programs accredited by other bodies (fellowships). Learn about our programs Benefits Nationally recognized research facilities and a diverse patient population are just a few of the reasons to choose MCWAH. Access everything you need to know about the comprehensive benefits package for housestaff here. Learn about our benefits Housestaff Onboarding Find all the important welcome information, as well as important dates and forms for incoming housestaff. Learn about housestaff onboarding Contact Us Mailing Address Medical College of Wisconsin Affiliated Hospitals, Inc. Graduate Medical Education 8701 Watertown Plank Rd. Milwaukee, WI 53226 Office Location Milwaukee County Research Park 10000 W. Innovation Dr., Suite #100 Milwaukee, WI 53226 (414) 955-4575 (414) 955-0156 (fax) gme@mcw.edu Office Hours Monday-Thursday 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Friday 8 a.m.-4:30 p.m. or by appointment. Parking/Entering the Building Park and enter from the main entrance. Turn right at the fountain; the MCWAH offices are at the end of the hall. twitter facebook instagram linkedin Patient Care Education Research Giving About MCW Alumni Events News Contact Us Staff Portal &copy; 2026 Medical College of Wisconsin . All rights reserved. | Terms and Privacy | Web Accessibility Statement Non-Discrimination, Anti-Harassment, and Legal Compliance Statement The Medical College of Wisconsin (MCW) is committed to fostering a diverse community of outstanding faculty, staff, and students, as well as ensuring equal educational opportunity, employment, and access to services, programs, and activities, without regard to an individual's race, color, national origin, religion, age, disability, sex, gender identity/expression, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, predisposing genetic characteristic, military status, or other legally protected classification. MCW maintains full compliance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations in pursuit of our missions. Consistent with federal guidance, we affirm our commitment to individual merit, fairness, and equal treatment in all aspects of academic and institutional decision-making. MCW's policies, federal and state laws, and regulations prohibit unlawful discrimination and harassment. Employees, learners, students, applicants, or other members of the MCW community (including but not limited to vendors, visitors, and guests) may not be subjected to harassment that is prohibited by law or treated adversely or retaliated against based upon a protected characteristic.