Duke University School of Medicine Skip to main content Utility Faculty Directory Contact Us Give Search Menu Close Main navigation About Us toggle sub nav items Leadership and Administration Facts & Figures History Named Professorships Faculty Resources Staff Resources Duke In Durham Alumni Giving Anatomical Gifts Program Calendar of Events Contact Us Education toggle sub nav items Health Professions Education Programs Biomedical Graduate Education Programs Biomedical PhD Programs Certificate and Training Programs International Experiences Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Duke AHEC Program SOM Bulletin Duke Medical Center Library & Archives Research toggle sub nav items Basic Science Research Clinical and Translational Research Artificial Intelligence in Health Duke Research and Discovery @RTP Core Facilities & Service Centers Funding Opportunities Research Initiatives Research Support Nobel Laureates Summer Undergraduate Research Opportunities 2026 Research Symposium Patient Care Community Partnership Departments, Centers & Institutes Newsroom toggle sub nav items News Magnify Magazine Multimedia Highlights Magazines and Annual Reports Podcasts Utility Faculty Directory Contact Us Give Mission Driven: Education, Research, Patient Care, and Community Partnership Recent News Longevity unlocked: The science of healthy aging May 14, 2026 Study unveils precise way to rewire brain circuits to boost resilience to stress May 13, 2026 Duke University School of Medicine Announces 2026 Faculty Award Recipients May 13, 2026 Visit our Newsroom Facts and Figures Learn School of Medicine facts, statistics, and key priorities as they relate to Education, Research, Patient Care, Community Partnerships, Global Impact, and Philanthropy. Research Saves Lives Explore how Duke&#039;s research is changing people&#039;s lives across North Carolina and around the world. The Duke Campaign Philanthropy moves research, education and patient care forward at the School of Medicine. The MADE FOR THIS campaign will generate resources to ensure our success. CPR World Record Attempt - RACE-CARS Trial More than 350,000 people experience sudden cardiac arrest in the U.S. annually, and 90% of cases are fatal. Cardiac arrest victims who receive CPR immediately have double to triple the survival rates of those who do not. On February 25, 2026, North Carolinians took a shot at making history. Duke University School of Medicine led a statewide effort to break the world record for the most people trained in hands-only CPR in a single day. While falling short of the 30,000 person goal, almost 20 thousand participants learned CPR – a benchmark day for trainings in the United States. What if preventing Alzheimer's was possible right now? Heather Whitson’s life purpose came into focus when her love of science was linked to helping her grandmother confront Alzheimer’s Disease. Through her work at Duke, Dr. Whitson has found that Alzheimer's and dementia are diseases of aging that can be prevented decades before initial symptoms set in. Leading at the Intersection of Technology and Care: A Conversation with Dr. Erik Sulman In this conversation with Dean Mary Klotman, Dr. Sulman reflects on what drew him to Duke, outlines his goals for strengthening Radiation Oncology’s clinical, research, and educational missions, and shares how innovation—from precision therapies to new technologies—is shaping the field. He also highlights opportunities to support trainees, foster collaboration, and advance discovery to improve patient outcomes. Patient Care Community Partnership Education Primary footer menu About Us Education Research Patient Care Community Partnership Departments, Centers & Institutes Newsroom Footer Terms and Conditions Accessibility Contact Us Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn RSS feed Give medschool.duke.edu duke.edu dukehealth.org @2026 Duke University and Duke University Health System. All rights reserved.