Visiting Medical Student | BCM Skip to main content Open Menu Menu Healthcare Specialties Cardiovascular Care Oncology Neurosurgery Primary Care View All Specialties > For Health Professionals Refer a Patient Clinical Trials Professional Development View All > For Patients & Visitors MyChart Login Accepted Insurance Pay My Bill Patient Information View All > Clinical Trials Autism Cancer Obesity Substance Abuse View All Clinical Trials > Find a Doctor Make an Appointment General Inquiries Call today to schedule an appointment or fill out an online request form. If requested before 2 p.m. you will receive a response today. CALL 713-798-1000 Monday – Friday 8 a.m. – 5 p.m. ONLINE Request Now Request non-urgent appointments As Houston's premier academic medical practice, Baylor Medicine delivers compassionate, innovative, evidence-based care. Find a Doctor Education Degree Programs & Admissions M.D. Program Ph.D. Programs DNP Program (Nurse Anesthesia) Genetic Counseling Program P.A. Program Orthotics & Prosthetics Program Baccalaureate/M.D. Programs Dual Degree Programs View All Programs > Financing Your Education Tuition & Fees Financial Aid CARES ACT Schools School of Medicine Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences National School of Tropical Medicine School of Health Professions Advanced Training Programs Residency Programs Clinical Fellowships Postdoctoral Research Positions Continuing Professional Development Diploma in Tropical Medicine View All > Resources Departments Academic Centers Academic Calendars Education Cores View All > Information For... Students Postdoctoral Researchers Faculty Alumni America's fourth-largest city is a great place to live, work, and play. Find out why. Get to Know Houston Research Research Offices Advanced Technology Cores Clinical Research Institute for Clinical & Translational Research Office of Research Leadership Research IT Sponsored Programs Research at Baylor Academic Centers Departments Faculty Labs From the Labs News Our Research Research Centers Strategic Research Center Additional Research Services BCM Innovation Institute Service Labs VIICTR America's fourth-largest city is a great place to live, work, and play. Find out why. Get to Know Houston Community Healthcare Outreach Community Programs More > Global Outreach Global Health Global Programs > Educational Outreach SMART Program BioEd Online More > General Resources Community Events News Blogs Baylor in the Community America's fourth-largest city is a great place to live, work, and play. Find out why. Get to Know Houston About About Us Academic Centers Alumni Careers Departments Giving Leadership Mission, Vision, Values News Our Affiliates Fast Facts Accreditation Offices President&#039;s Office Office of Research Ombuds Office BCM Innovation Institute View All > Our Campus Compliance Safety and Security Resource Stewardship & Sustainability Team Shop Find a Person America's fourth-largest city is a great place to live, work, and play. Find out why. Get to Know Houston GIVE CAREERS INTRANET Careers Contact Us News Open Search School of Medicine Open Navigation Navigation svg]:w-20 [&>svg]:h-20"> M.D. Program Graduate Medical Education Baccalaureate & M.D. Programs Leadership Continuing Professional Development M.D. Program Graduate Medical Education Baccalaureate & M.D. Programs Leadership Continuing Professional Development Baylor College of Medicine Education School of Medicine M.D. Program Curriculum Elective Program Visiting Medical Student Navigation Campuses and Admissions Houston Campus Temple Campus Admissions Process How to Apply Requirements Supplemental Application Interview Program Residency Technical Standards Abilities and Skills Requisite for Medical School Completion Interview Checklist Pre-Interview Social Notification of Acceptance FAQs Important Dates Interview Program Transportation, Parking and Hotel Information Residency Technical Standards Abilities and Skills Required Interview Checklist Admissions Committee Admissions Policies CASPer Test Professional Licensure Disclosure Tuition and Fees Dual-Degree Billing Schedules Curriculum Foundational Sciences Curriculum Foundational Sciences Course Descriptions Legacy Foundational Sciences Curriculum Clinical Curriculum Core Clerkships Legacy M.D. Program Clinical Curriculum Selectives and Sub-Internships Training Sites Elective Program Requirements and Criteria for Electives Enrollment Procedures Elective Withdrawal Visiting Medical Student Affiliation Agreements Mentoring Interprofessional Education IPE Scholarship IPE Beyond The M.D. Simulation Education Programs Clerkships Medical Pathways Care of the Underserved Pathway Competencies Genetics & Genomics Pathway Global Health Pathway Medical Research Pathway Quality Improvement Pathway Curriculum Committee Curriculum Committee Members Evaluation, Assessment and Education Research Student Opportunities for Advancement in Research NICER Presentation and Conference Opportunities SOAR Travel Awards Student Educational Resources Dual Degrees M.D./J.D. Program M.D./MPH Program Admissions Program Structure Career Opportunities Faculty & Staff M.D/M.S. Program M.D./M.B.A. at Rice University Admissions and Tuition M.D./M.B.A. at Baylor University Admissions and Tuition Student Life Current Students Student Affairs Career Advising and Counseling Career Advising Elective Counseling Medical Student Performance Evaluation (MSPE) Discovery, Integration, Success, Community, Outreach USMLE (Step 1 and 2) Registration BCM School of Medicine Pre-Entry Program Learning Community Events Orientation and Retreat White Coat Ceremony Medical School Family Day Student Affairs Contacts NICER Leopard Pantry Student Senate Student Organizations Honor Societies Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society Medical Student Research Symposium Abstract Submission Poster Design and Presentation Symposium Day Incoming Students Student Handbook Dean&#039;s Message Student Responsibilities Medical Student Professionalism Reporting and Responding to Breaches of Professionalism and Ethical Conduct Honor Council Reporting of Criminal Allegation, Arrest, or Conviction Criminal Background Check Policy Falsification of Admission Application Principles & Learning Environment Release of Information Organization and Governance Committees with Student Involvement Academic Standards and Requirements Requirements for the Degree Doctor of Medicine Attendance and Absences Technical Standards M.D. Program Curriculum Foundational Sciences Curriculum Clinical Curriculum Examinations Academic Progress and Advancement Credit Hour Policy Academic Standards of Progress for Financial Aid Eligibility Student Promotions and Academic Achievement Transcripts Student Health, Wellness & Career Services Student Insurance Leave of Absence Substance & Alcohol Abuse Policy Student Life Services Social Media Parking and Transportation Contacts LCME Accreditation LCME Resources LCME FAQ LCME Standards & Elements Teaching Faculty Resources Division of Medical Education Research and Scholarship Humanities Expression and Arts Lab Events Education Medical Humanities Pathway Match Day Visiting Medical Student The Visiting Medical Student Elective Program does not process/approve research (outside of established electives), shadowing or observerships. Campus Locations We are pleased to inform you that Baylor College of Medicine (BCM) operates visiting rotations at two campuses. One campus is located in Houston, Texas, and one campus is located in Temple, Texas. Please note that our Temple campus does not accept international visiting students. Houston Campus : This is BCM’s primary location, offering a wide range of clinical affiliates Temple Campus : Rotations at this campus are managed in collaboration with Baylor Scott & White Health (BSWH). Please note that all BSWH rotations are held in Temple, Texas and this campus only accepts students attending US based schools. We look forward to supporting your educational journey across our diverse and dynamic campuses. Occupational Health Program Requirements BCM requires a Tdap vaccine (rather than a Td) within the last 10 years. When applying in VSLO, please ensure that your record reflects that your recent tetanus booster is a Tdap. Additionally, BCM requires a blood test for TB screening. A QFT is preferred. Please ensure that you provide blood test (rather than skin test) results. The test should not expire prior to or during your rotation. That is, it needs to be completed within 12 months prior to the end of your proposed rotation. United States Visiting Medical Student Baylor College of Medicine is a host school under the AAMC Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) program. If you will be enrolled as a senior medical student in a U.S. LCME- accredited medical school or a senior osteopathic student in a COCA-accredited AACOM member college, you must apply for an elective at Baylor through VSLO. Basic requirements for visiting students, verified by documentation provided by the home school include the following: Enrolled in the final year of medical school (or equivalent) at the start of the elective. Good academic standing. Completion of the home school’s clinical core clerkships. Passing score on either USMLE Step 1 or COMLEX Level 1 examination. Additional requirements / pre-requisites may be found on the Elective Course Catalog. The student has completed a criminal background check Note: All students must apply by the deadline date for each elective enrollment period, as published on the VSLO web site. Applications are only accepted through the VSLO system. If you miss the deadline, you are not eligible for an elective at Baylor. You are notified NOT to directly contact Baylor faculty and administrative staff in an attempt to arrange clinical/research experiences. The visiting medical student elective program office is responsible for processing and scheduling all elective requests. All students must follow established guidelines and procedures (no exceptions). The Visiting Medical Student Elective Program does not process/approve research, shadowing, or observerships. Please review the frequently asked questions for visiting students from U.S. schools for specific details on the process International Applicants Baylor currently is partnered with VSLO (an AAMC Application Service) to process International application to Visiting Student Electives. Please visit the VSLO website institutions page to see if your Medical School/College is currently a Home Institution in the VSLO Network, if not, please contact your institution’s International Relations Office or Office of the Dean to join VSLO Network. If you have any further questions you may write to VSLO . Baylor only considers students from abroad schools January through June of each year. There are no exceptions to this. The policy outlining elective course requirements for International visiting students outlines further details regarding the process for international students applying to electives at Baylor. Effective Jan. 1, 2015, there is a $1,000 non-refundable application fee due at time of application submission in VSLO. This fee must be paid in U.S. dollars online via the VSLO portal with a credit/debit card. No other source of payment will be accepted. We are not set up for a wire transfer. Absolutely no personal checks will be accepted. This application fee must accompany your application in VSLO with all the required documents or your application will not be processed. This fee does not guarantee you an elective and it is non-refundable. All international students must submit required application documents, including the elective application and the International Student forms, a minimum of six weeks prior to the start of the elective. Complete applications include the following: AAMC Immunization Form, BCM Biographical Data Form, Copy of the biographical data page of the Student’s passport, Medical Student Claims Waiver, Curriculum Vitae, Dean’s Office Certification form, Enrollment Verification Certification, International Student Certification of Finances, Official Transcript(s) from the home medical school, Payment of application fees, Photo, Proof of English Proficiency, Visiting Student Standard of Professional Conduct form. If accepted, the F-1 visa will be provided to students electronically. Please note, all International students are required to take and pass the Test of English as a Foreign Language exam (TOEFL) with a minimum Internet Based Score of 100, regardless of English familiarity. Official scores should be submitted as part of the application documents. Only students holding a U.S. passport may be exempt from this requirement. Incomplete applications will not be processed. Student visa appointment wait times have increased. If accepted to an away rotation, you are required to have your visa paperwork completed/approved in advance of traveling for the away rotation. Please consult the visa appointment wait time site to review projected wait times for your area and do not select elective months that will not allow time for your visa process to be completed. Baylor College of Medicine does not have a visiting student research, shadowing, or observership program for medical students. Please review the frequently asked questions for international visiting students for specific details on the process. International Services Office The information below only pertains to students attending schools with a reciprocal clinical training agreement developed through Baylor Global Initiatives . All visiting elective students who are non-U.S. citizens must be processed and their legal visa status verified by Human Resources-International Services Office. For pending immigrants or U.S. permanent residents; the students will need to present a valid EAD card or an I-551 U.S. permanent resident card (otherwise known as a “green card”). For individuals in the United States who are currently attending a U.S. medical school on an F-1 visa status, student must obtain permission letter from their F-1 sponsoring school to pursue the medical elective program at Baylor College of Medicine. All other international students must enter the United States with the F-1/J-1 student visa status to participate in Baylor's Visiting Medical Student Elective Program. B-1/B-2 visa IS NOT accepted for participation in the Visiting Medical Student Elective Program at Baylor College of Medicine. Baylor College of Medicine will not support a change of status to F-1/J-1 visa status either of these visas for visiting medical elective students and Baylor will not allow other non-immigrant visa holders to pursue medical electives. If you are already in the United States on another visa for another purpose and wish to pursue a medical elective program at Baylor College of Medicine, you must exit the United States, visit a U.S. embassy abroad to apply for the F-1/J-1 visa status, and re-enter on Baylor’s I-20 (or DS-2019) in order to participate in Baylor College of Medicine’s Visiting Medical Student Elective Program. If you have any visa questions, please email the Human Resources- International Services Office at internationalservicesoffice@bcm.edu . .button]:text-left"> M.D. Program Navigation Campuses and Admissions Houston Campus Temple Campus Admissions Process How to Apply Requirements Supplemental Application Interview Program Residency Technical Standards Abilities and Skills Requisite for Medical School Completion Interview Checklist Pre-Interview Social Notification of Acceptance FAQs Important Dates Interview Program Transportation, Parking and Hotel Information Residency Technical Standards Abilities and Skills Required Interview Checklist Admissions Committee Admissions Policies CASPer Test Professional Licensure Disclosure Tuition and Fees Dual-Degree Billing Schedules Curriculum Foundational Sciences Curriculum Foundational Sciences Course Descriptions Legacy Foundational Sciences Curriculum Clinical Curriculum Core Clerkships Legacy M.D. Program Clinical Curriculum Selectives and Sub-Internships Training Sites Elective Program Requirements and Criteria for Electives Enrollment Procedures Elective Withdrawal Visiting Medical Student Affiliation Agreements Mentoring Interprofessional Education IPE Scholarship IPE Beyond The M.D. Simulation Education Programs Clerkships Medical Pathways Care of the Underserved Pathway Competencies Genetics & Genomics Pathway Global Health Pathway Medical Research Pathway Quality Improvement Pathway Curriculum Committee Curriculum Committee Members Evaluation, Assessment and Education Research Student Opportunities for Advancement in Research NICER Presentation and Conference Opportunities SOAR Travel Awards Student Educational Resources Dual Degrees M.D./J.D. Program M.D./MPH Program Admissions Program Structure Career Opportunities Faculty & Staff M.D/M.S. Program M.D./M.B.A. at Rice University Admissions and Tuition M.D./M.B.A. at Baylor University Admissions and Tuition Student Life Current Students Student Affairs Career Advising and Counseling Career Advising Elective Counseling Medical Student Performance Evaluation (MSPE) Discovery, Integration, Success, Community, Outreach USMLE (Step 1 and 2) Registration BCM School of Medicine Pre-Entry Program Learning Community Events Orientation and Retreat White Coat Ceremony Medical School Family Day Student Affairs Contacts NICER Leopard Pantry Student Senate Student Organizations Honor Societies Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society Medical Student Research Symposium Abstract Submission Poster Design and Presentation Symposium Day Incoming Students Student Handbook Dean&#039;s Message Student Responsibilities Medical Student Professionalism Reporting and Responding to Breaches of Professionalism and Ethical Conduct Honor Council Reporting of Criminal Allegation, Arrest, or Conviction Criminal Background Check Policy Falsification of Admission Application Principles & Learning Environment Release of Information Organization and Governance Committees with Student Involvement Academic Standards and Requirements Requirements for the Degree Doctor of Medicine Attendance and Absences Technical Standards M.D. Program Curriculum Foundational Sciences Curriculum Clinical Curriculum Examinations Academic Progress and Advancement Credit Hour Policy Academic Standards of Progress for Financial Aid Eligibility Student Promotions and Academic Achievement Transcripts Student Health, Wellness & Career Services Student Insurance Leave of Absence Substance & Alcohol Abuse Policy Student Life Services Social Media Parking and Transportation Contacts LCME Accreditation LCME Resources LCME FAQ LCME Standards & Elements Teaching Faculty Resources Division of Medical Education Research and Scholarship Humanities Expression and Arts Lab Events Education Medical Humanities Pathway Match Day Contact Phone 713–798–7766 Email visitingmed@bcm.edu Office of the Registrar Hours: 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday - Friday Location: DeBakey Bldg. M210 Related Links International Services Office America's fourth largest city is a great place to live, work and play. Find out why. Get to Know Houston Credit Visit Houston Connect with us Follow Us Footer Menu Healthcare Healthcare Specialties MyChart Login For Patients & Visitors For Health Professionals Clinical Trials Find a Physician Footer Menu Education Education Programs & Admissions Student & Trainee Resources Faculty Resources School of Medicine Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences National School of Tropical Medicine School of Health Professions Tuition & Fees Financial Aid Footer Menu Research Research Our Research Core Labs Faculty Labs Research Centers Research Offices Footer Menu Community Community Healthcare Outreach Education Outreach Global Programs Community Events Footer Menu About About Our Campus Departments Academic Centers Administrative Offices Affiliates Leadership Giving Alumni Footer Menu Resource Links Resource Links Contact Us Find a Person Careers BCM Team Shop News Title IX Office Compliance ©1998-2026 Baylor College of Medicine® | 1 Baylor Plaza, Houston, Texas 77030 | 713-798-4951 Have an edit or suggestion for this page? Compliance Privacy Intranet Back to top