GME Physician Recruitment and Engagement | Boston Medical Center Skip to main content Utility Menu Careers Nursing Pharmacy Radiology View All Donate Refer a Patient Request an Appointment MyChart Language About BMC About BMC Boston Medical Center is committed to empowering all patients to thrive, through our innovative and equitable care. In addition to this commitment, our leadership in health equity, research, and teaching is driving the future of care. Who We&#160;Are Mission Diversity, Equity, and&#160;Inclusion Health Equity Accelerator Quality and&#160;Safety Care in our&#160;Community The Teaching Kitchen Our Leadership Careers Sustainability Volunteer BMC News BMC Health System Contact Us Departments &&#160;Conditions Departments BMC physicians are leaders in their fields with the most advanced medical technology at their fingertips and working alongside a highly skilled nursing and professional staff. Search Departments Conditions We Treat We offer diagnosis and treatment in over 70 specialties and subspecialties, as well as programs, services, and support to help you stay well throughout your lifetime. Search Conditions Addiction Treatment Programs Adult Primary Care Anesthesia Cancer Center Cardiovascular Center Dentistry Dermatology Ear, Nose, and&#160;Throat Emergency Medicine Endocrinology Family Medicine Gastroenterology Geriatrics GenderCare Center Infectious Diseases Kidney Medicine Kidney Transplant Surgery Lab Services Neurology Neurosurgery Nutrition and Weight Management Obstetrics and&#160;Gynecology Ophthalmology Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Orthopedic Surgery Pediatric Primary Care Pediatric Specialty Care Pharmacy Physical and Occupational Therapy Plastic Surgery Podiatry Psychiatry Pulmonology Radiology Rheumatology Sickle Cell&#160;Disease Surgery Thoracic Surgery Travel Medicine Urology Weight Loss&#160;Surgery Women's Health See all&#160;departments Find a&#160;Provider Patients &&#160;Visitors Patients & Visitors We are committed to providing the best experience possible for our patients and visitors. For both in-person and virtual visits, BMC is here to ensure you have everything you need to make your visit a success. Patient Information Visitor Information Directions and&#160;Transportation Accessibility Information Autism Friendly Initiative Billing and&#160;Insurance Pricing and&#160;Estimates Interpreter Services For Medical Professionals For Medical Professionals Whether you’re a BMCHS employee or looking to refer a patient, we have tools and resources to help you care for patients effectively and efficiently. In addition, we are devoted to training future generations of health professionals in our wide range of residency and fellowship programs. Explore Resources Patient Care Refer a&#160;Patient Education and&#160;Training Residency and&#160;Fellowships Nursing Nursing Careers TOOLS Find a&#160;Provider Find a&#160;Department Research Research At Boston Medical Center, research efforts are imperative in allowing us to provide our patients with quality care. Research at&#160;BMC Research News Research Centers and&#160;Programs Research and Sponsored Programs Clinical Trials Industry Collaborations Utility Menu Careers Nursing Pharmacy Radiology View All Donate Refer a Patient Request an Appointment MyChart Language Search Popular Searches Adult Primary Care Neurology Psychiatry Orthopedic Surgery Radiology Breadcrumb For Medical Professionals Education and Training Graduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education GME Physician Recruitment and… Back to Graduate Medical Education GME Physician Recruitment and Engagement The Graduate Medical Education Department and its programs are dedicated to the recruitment, engagement, and development of physicians within our residency and fellowship ranks. Through collaboration with residency and fellowship programs, clinical departments, and administrative offices, we strive to cultivate a diverse and exceptional team of physicians to enhance the quality of care provided to our patients. Explore Department Close Overview Faculty Mentorship and Networking Residents and Fellows Intern Cohort Mentorship Program Subsidized Visiting Elective Program (SVEP) for Medical Students Summer Programs for Undergraduates Close Department Explore Department Close Overview Faculty Mentorship and Networking Residents and Fellows Intern Cohort Mentorship Program Subsidized Visiting Elective Program (SVEP) for Medical Students Summer Programs for Undergraduates About Boston Medical Center Boston University Medical Campus Boston Medical Center (BMC) is a private, not-for-profit academic medical center located in Boston’s historic South End. The hospital is the primary teaching affiliate for the Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine . BMC emphasizes community-based care with a mission to provide consistent, accessible health services to all. As the largest safety-net hospital in New England, BMC provides a full spectrum of pediatric and adult care services, from primary to family medicine to advanced specialty care. BMC is the largest and busiest provider of trauma and emergency services in New England. With more than 50 ACGME-accredited programs and more than 650 residents and fellows, BMC offers a wide range of educational and career training options. Commitment to the Community Approximately 57 percent of BMC patients come from underserved populations, including low-income families, elders, people with disabilities, and immigrants. Over 50 percent of all patients are from racial and ethnic minority populations, and 32 percent do not speak English as a primary language. BMC is a founder of Boston HealthNet , a network affiliation of the medical center, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine, and fourteen community health centers. Boston HealthNet is an integrated healthcare delivery system whose partners provide outreach, prevention, primary and specialty care, and dental services at sites located throughout Greater Boston’s neighborhoods. Why Boston? 2024 U.S. Census demographic data for Commonwealth of Massachusetts and City of Boston racial and ethnic groups Boston’s world-renowned medical community contains three major medical schools and several teaching hospitals all within a short distance of each other. Boston is a vibrant, thriving, and diverse city known for its culture, historic neighborhoods, world-class educational institutions, champion sports franchises, and restaurants. In the summer, you can enjoy the beaches and sights of nearby Cape Cod, Martha’s Vineyard, and Newport, Rhode Island. In the fall, you can enjoy stunning autumn foliage in Vermont and New Hampshire. If you are looking for a quick getaway, New York City is only four hours south. Boston is also a very commuter-friendly city. Much of the downtown is walkable, and excellent public transportation can get you to areas throughout Greater Boston. Location and Contact The GME Office of Physician Recruitment excels in recruiting top talent from around the globe while offering robust support and opportunities for physicians to foster cross-program relationships and professional growth. GME Office of Physician Recruitment and Engagement 617.414.3506 shawnda.walker@bmc.org Monday – Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Get Directions Call Us at 617.414.3506 Want to keep up with the latest news from Boston Medical Center? Sign up for our monthly patient newsletter, Your BMC. Subscribe to Our Newsletter Boston Medical Center models a new kind of excellence in healthcare, where innovative and equitable care empowers all patients to thrive. One Boston Medical Center Place Boston, MA 02118 617.638.8000 24 Hour Emergency Department 725 Albany Street Boston, MA 02118 617.414.4075 Social Links Boston Medical Center on Facebook Boston Medical Center on Instagram Boston Medical Center on LinkedIn Boston Medical Center on Twitter Boston Medical Center on Youtube Awards Accreditation Regulatory Compliance Careers Donate Find A Doctor ICU Nurse Ratios Institutional Master Plan Insurance Plans Accepted Medical Records Price Transparency Media Relations Medical Staff Services Vendor Access Volunteer Discover More: Pediatric Emergency Medicine Fellowship - Health Equity Subsidized Visiting Elective Program (SVEP)... Summer Programs for Undergraduates Coda BMC Privacy Policy and Terms of Use Code of Conduct Manage My Cookie Preferences Nondiscrimination Statement Patient Privacy/HIPAA Website Accessibility © 2026 Boston Medical Center. All rights reserved.