Hospital Queens, New York | Jamaica Hospital Medical Center 718-206-6000 Patient Login Home General Information General Information Learn about our hospital’s mission, leadership, history, and achievements. Find answers in our FAQs, explore volunteer opportunities, and stay informed through our newsletter and community updates. About Us Achievements Administration Community Diversity and Inclusion Policy Directions &#038; Parking FAQ History of Jamaica Hospital Media Visiting Hours Volunteering Info Newsletter For Our Patients For Our Patients Find essential patient information including how to become an organ donor, maps and parking directions, Child Life services, pharmacy details, and visiting hours to help plan your visit. Become an Organ Donor Bill of Rights Campus Map Directions &#038; Parking Child Life Services Language Services Medical Records Nursing Pastoral Care Patient Relations Person Centered Care Population Health Social Work Visiting Hours Patient Navigation Pharmacy WIC Services MediSys Connect Clinical Services Clinical Services Discover our full range of clinical services, with highlights including cardiology, hospice care, emergency care, pediatrics, neurology, and stroke care, providing expert treatment and compassionate support at every stage of care. Ambulatory Care Ambulatory Surgery Anesthesia Allergy &#038; Immunology Cardiology Cancer Care Care Management Critical Care Unit Dental Dermatology Ear Nose Throat Emergency Department Endocrinology Family Medicine Gastroenterology Hospice Care Services Infectious Disease Integrative Health Internal Medicine Lupus Center Medisys Family Care Centers Nephrology NICU – Neonatal Intensive Care Unit Neurology Neurosurgery Nutritional Services Palliative Care Infectious Disease Ophthalmology Orthopedic Surgery Pain Management Palliative Care Pathology Pediatrics Pediatric Cardiology Pediatric Dentistry Pediatric Endocrinology Pediatric Ophthalmology Pediatric Surgery Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Plastic Surgery Podiatry Services Population Health Psychiatry Pulmonary Medicine Radiology Respiratory Care Rheumatology Robotic Surgery Sleep Center Stroke Care Surgery Traumatic Brain Injury Services TCU – Transitional Care Unit Trauma Center Urology Vascular Surgery Women’s Health Donate Pay Your Bill Patient Login Contact Us Toggle navigation Toggle navigation Menu Toggle navigation Home General Information About Us Achievements Administration Community Diversity and Inclusion Policy Directions &#038; Parking FAQ History of Jamaica Hospital Media Visiting Hours Volunteering Info Newsletter For Our Patients Become an Organ Donor Bill of Rights Campus Map Directions &#038; Parking Child Life Services Language Services Medical Records Nursing Pastoral Care Patient Relations Person Centered Care Population Health Social Work Visiting Hours Patient Navigation Pharmacy WIC Services MediSys Connect Clinical Services Ambulatory Care Ambulatory Surgery Anesthesia Allergy &#038; Immunology Cardiology Cancer Care Care Management Critical Care Unit Dental Dermatology Ear Nose Throat Emergency Department Endocrinology Family Medicine Gastroenterology Hospice Care Services Infectious Disease Integrative Health Internal Medicine Lupus Center Medisys Family Care Centers Nephrology NICU – Neonatal Intensive Care Unit Neurology Neurosurgery Nutritional Services Palliative Care Infectious Disease Ophthalmology Orthopedic Surgery Pain Management Palliative Care Pathology Pediatrics Pediatric Cardiology Pediatric Dentistry Pediatric Endocrinology Pediatric Ophthalmology Pediatric Surgery Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Plastic Surgery Podiatry Services Population Health Psychiatry Pulmonary Medicine Radiology Respiratory Care Rheumatology Robotic Surgery Sleep Center Stroke Care Surgery Traumatic Brain Injury Services TCU – Transitional Care Unit Trauma Center Urology Vascular Surgery Women’s Health Donate Pay Your Bill Contact Us What can we help you find? Jamaica Hospital Medical Center Serving Queens, New York, as Your Trusted Hospital Since 1891 Find a Doctor Discover Clinical Services 120k+ ER Visits 1.7k+ Deliveries 200k+ Ambulatory Care Visits 12k+ Admissions Comprehensive Services At Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, we provide a wide array of clinical services to meet the health needs of our community. Here are some core services our hospital offers in Queens, New York City. Ambulatory Care Our Department of Ambulatory Care provides excellent outpatient services in a welcoming setting. We offer primary care and specialty services in Queens, New York. Jamaica Hospital’s knowledgeable staff ensures every visit is smooth and supportive. Cardiology JHMC is home to the Thomas Santucci Cardiovascular Interventional Suite. This advanced facility provides comprehensive heart care, including cardiac catheterization and arrhythmia services. We treat various cardiac conditions, ensuring patients receive effective treatments to manage their heart health. Emergency Care Jamaica Hospital’s Emergency Department operates 24/7, ready to treat over 117,000 patients a year. Our compassionate team includes board-certified emergency medicine specialists and nurses who provide the best care for every patient. Pediatrics The Pediatric Department of our hospital in Queens, New York, provides comprehensive care for children from infancy through adolescence. With specialized pediatric services, we ensure every child receives the highest level of care in a comforting environment. Neurology The JHMC Division of Neurology offers inpatient and outpatient services for a comprehensive spectrum of neurological disorders and conditions. Migraines, neuropathy, MS, vertigo, epilepsy, dementia, Parkinson’s disease, and more are treated by our New York City hospital’s multidisciplinary team. Stroke Care Our Comprehensive Stroke Center is the first and only one of its kind in Queens, and a top 5 stroke center in the state of New York, with 24/7 in-house coverage, expert neuro-interventionists and neuro-intensivists, and specialized equipment, as well as extensive coverage in both general neurosurgery and cerebrovascular neurosurgery. Vascular Care The Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery at JHMC treats circulatory system conditions like arterial disease, deep vein thrombosis, stroke, and aneurysms with holistic care and minimally invasive procedures. Our medical team employs long-term lifestyle plans for patients to identify risks and ensure vascular health in months and years to come. Women’s Health Our hospital offers comprehensive OB/GYN services in Queens, New York. From prenatal care through birthing to regular gynecological services, Jamaica Hospital is committed to the health and well-being of women at all stages of life. Cancer Care Jamaica Hospital’s affiliation with Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center helps to make our integrative oncology program more accessible to our diverse Queens, New York community. Our comprehensive, patient-centered care applies to a variety of cancers, and treatment comes in many different forms, including surgery, immunotherapy, clinical trials, and so much more. Hospice Care The Ferrara Family Center for Hospice Care at JHMC provides a variety of compassionate end-of-life care services to support patients and their families, with spacious patient rooms and comfortable family meeting and lounge areas, grief and bereavement counseling, family advocacy, and holistic care for physical pain and emotional, social, and spiritual needs. Cardiology JHMC is home to the Thomas Santucci Cardiovascular Interventional Suite. This advanced facility provides comprehensive heart care, including cardiac catheterization and arrhythmia services. We treat various cardiac conditions, ensuring patients receive effective treatments to manage their heart health. Emergency Care Jamaica Hospital’s Emergency Department operates 24/7, ready to treat over 117,000 patients a year. Our compassionate team includes board-certified emergency medicine specialists and nurses who provide the best care for every patient. Pediatrics The Pediatric Department of our hospital in Queens, New York, provides comprehensive care for children from infancy through adolescence. With specialized pediatric services, we ensure every child receives the highest level of care in a comforting environment. Neurology The JHMC Division of Neurology offers inpatient and outpatient services for a comprehensive spectrum of neurological disorders and conditions. Migraines, neuropathy, MS, vertigo, epilepsy, dementia, Parkinson’s disease, and more are treated by our New York City hospital’s multidisciplinary team. Stroke Care Our Comprehensive Stroke Center is the first and only one of its kind in Queens, and a top 5 stroke center in the state of New York, with 24/7 in-house coverage, expert neuro-interventionists and neuro-intensivists, and specialized equipment, as well as extensive coverage in both general neurosurgery and cerebrovascular neurosurgery. Vascular Care The Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery at JHMC treats circulatory system conditions like arterial disease, deep vein thrombosis, stroke, and aneurysms with holistic care and minimally invasive procedures. Our medical team employs long-term lifestyle plans for patients to identify risks and ensure vascular health in months and years to come. Women’s Health Our hospital offers comprehensive OB/GYN services in Queens, New York. From prenatal care through birthing to regular gynecological services, Jamaica Hospital is committed to the health and well-being of women at all stages of life. Cancer Care Jamaica Hospital’s affiliation with Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center helps to make our integrative oncology program more accessible to our diverse Queens, New York community. Our comprehensive, patient-centered care applies to a variety of cancers, and treatment comes in many different forms, including surgery, immunotherapy, clinical trials, and so much more. Explore More of Our Services Welcome to Jamaica Hospital Since 1891, Jamaica Hospital has stood as a pillar of healthcare in the culturally diverse community of Queens, New York. We are dedicated to providing compassionate care in a welcoming atmosphere. As a community hospital in the heart of Queens, we provide primary and specialty care services when you need it most. We offer a wide range of high-quality services, supporting patients at every stage of life. Whether you need emergency care, specialized treatments, or routine health services, Jamaica Hospital is here for you. Discover how we care for our community and why we have been a trusted hospital in Queens, New York, for well over a century. Jamaica Hospital Lung Cancer Screening Program Our lung cancer screening program is committed to improving the morbidity and mortality associated with lung cancer. Early detection significantly increases the chances of successful treatment. Screening plays a crucial role in identifying lung cancer at an early stage. Use our lung cancer screening tool to check your eligibility for our program. Click here to start Jamaica Hospital Lung Cancer Screening Program Our lung cancer screening program is committed to improving the morbidity and mortality associated with lung cancer. Early detection significantly increases the chances of successful treatment. Screening plays a crucial role in identifying lung cancer at an early stage. Use our lung cancer screening tool to check your eligibility for our program. Click here to start > Graduate Medical Education Our Graduate Medical Education program offers hands-on training alongside experienced mentors. Explore Trading Opportunities > Billing Center, Financial Services & Price Transparency Find insurance coverage information, financial assistance, hospital disclosures, and more. View Financial Information > Careers Explore exciting job opportunities at JHMC, a leading hospital in Queens, New York. Start Your Healthcare Career > Graduate Medical Education Our Graduate Medical Education program offers hands-on training alongside experienced mentors. Explore Training Opportunities Billing Center, Financial Services & Price Transparency Find insurance coverage information, financial assistance, hospital disclosures, and more. View Financial Information Careers Explore exciting job opportunities at JHMC, a leading hospital in Queens, New York. Start Your Healthcare Career Empowering Patients with Resources The experts at our hospital in Queens, New York, believe that informed patients make better choices about their health. That’s why we provide resources to help you navigate your healthcare journey. Pharmacy A convenient full-service pharmacy located on site. Visiting Hours Visiting hours and policies for each department vary and are subject to change Language Assistance Services We provide qualified interpreters and support for patients who speak different languages. Medical Records Request items like radiology images, pathology slides, and comprehensive medical records. Patient Relations We value your feedback and strive to deliver a positive patient experience. Accepted Insurance Plans View All Insurance Plans ACCEPTED INSURANCE PLANS View All Insurance Plans Community, engagement & Support As a leading New York City hospital, we value our relationship with the Queens community. Our hospital participates in many local events to share important health information and resources. Learn More Community, engagement & Support As a leading New York City hospital, we value our relationship with the Queens community. Our hospital participates in many local events to share important health information and resources. Click here to learn more Read More > Achievements Media Volunteer information Achievements Media Volunteering Information Transform Your Health With Expert Care Embrace better health with Jamaica Hospital, your trusted hospital in Queens, New York City. We provide compassionate care in a comfortable setting where every patient feels welcomed and valued. Located in the heart of Queens, Jamaica Hospital offers various services for every member of our community. Contact us today to schedule an appointment and discover the warmth and dedication that make our hospital a healthcare leader in Queens, New York. jamaica NY, 11418-2832"> Visit Our Location Visit Our Location Awards and Accolades At Jamaica Hospital Medical Center, we provide a wide array of clinical services to meet the health needs of our community. Here are some core services our hospital offers in Queens, New York City. Home | Network Affiliations | Insurance | Privacy | Language Services | Commitment to Compliance | JCAHO Notice | Price Transparency | Contact Us | Sitemap | Jamaica Hospital Medical Center © | 8900 Vanwyck Expressway New York, 11418 | (718)206-6000