Visiting Medical Student Clerkships - Academics - Mayo Clinic College of Medicine & Science Skip to main content Search Search College of Medicine and Science Search Contact Visit Log In Application for Admission Student/Faculty Portal MedHub Learning Hub (Brightspace) Continuous Professional Development Main site navigation Home Academics Academics Section Overview Academic programs Residencies and fellowships 350+ GME programs in all medical and surgical specialties Health sciences education 140+ programs, internships, and rotations in 50 health sciences fields Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine M.D. and M.D.-Ph.D. degrees Biomedical research training Ph.D. and master's degrees in biomedical sciences Continuous professional development Continuing education courses for medical professionals Visiting medical student clerkships Elective clinical rotations for visiting medical students Non-clinical education programs Internships, experiences, and opportunities for learners Learner services and support Academic support and well-being Artificial intelligence training Office of Education Engagement and Outreach Libraries Microsurgery Training Center Simulation centers What sets us apart Choosing Mayo Clinic Learning environment, research and patient care, rankings, faculty See all programs Search and filter our more than 400 programs. Browse programs Admissions and Tuition Admissions and Tuition Section Overview Residencies and fellowships Admissions &bull; Stipend and benefits Health sciences education Admissions and tuition Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine Admissions &bull; Tuition and aid Biomedical research training Admissions and benefits Visiting medical student clerkships Admissions Admissions and financial aid support Financial aid How to apply for aid, services we provide, grants, scholarships, and loans Registrar Academic records, education verifications, and transcript requests Immigration and visas Visa classifications, requirements, and forms for international applicants Get in touch Contact Contact our admissions and recruitment staff Visit Experience our campus environment through a virtual visit Our programs have a wide range of admissions requirements, application processes, costs, benefits and financial aid options. Find your program to see the most relevant information. Browse programs Campus and Community Campus and Community Section Overview Phoenix/Scottsdale, Arizona Our growing campus in the sun-drenched desert southwest. Explore Jacksonville, Florida Team medicine and science in the state's largest city. Explore Rochester, Minnesota Where it all began more than 150 years ago. Explore Mayo Clinic Health System Serving more than 60 communities in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Iowa. Explore About About Section Overview College profile History Higher Learning Commission accreditation Consumer information and disclosures Headlines and highlights News center Commencement Centers and services Alumni center Alumni associations for our graduates Executive Education Healthcare administration courses for leaders and medical education consulting for organizations Academy of Educational Excellence Resources, recognition, and support for Mayo Clinic faculty and educators Choosing Mayo Clinic Learning environment, research and patient care, rankings, faculty, and vision and values Learn more Log In Application for Admission Student/Faculty Portal MedHub Learning Hub (Brightspace) Continuous Professional Development Browse up a level: Academics Navigation menu for the following sub-section: Visiting Medical Student Clerkships Secondary Navigation Overview Application Process Curriculum Electives Family Medicine, Outpatient Clinic Rural Track - Menomonie Campus (Menomonie, Wisconsin) Scholarships Student Life Alumni Page Content Overview Mayo Clinic's Visiting Medical Student Clerkship Program offers students a broad array of elective clinical rotations that foster the growth of medical knowledge through direct patient care experiences. The program provides elective clinical rotations for over 600 participating medical students each year. Visiting students receive diverse hands-on experiences in our program. 3 locations #5 Top Hospitals and Health Systems for Fairness (Fair360, formerly DiversityInc, 2024) 107 electives to choose from As a visiting medical student at Mayo Clinic College of Medicine and Science, you become an active member of a medical team that sees patients from around the world with a wide spectrum of common and rare diseases. As a team member, you participate in teaching rounds and conferences with outstanding physicians representing all medical and surgical specialties and eminent scientists in basic research. Program history Mayo Clinic has hosted visiting medical student clerkships since 1915. Graduate training at Mayo Clinic During your clerkship, you may explore postgraduate training opportunities. Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education offers more than 300 residency and fellowship programs that span every medical and surgical specialty, as well as postdoctoral research and clinician-investigator programs. Mayo faculty members are happy to discuss these opportunities with visiting medical students. You may wish to apply for your clerkship at a campus that offers graduate training in your field of interest. More from Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education Phoenix/Scottsdale, AZ Campus and community Jacksonville, FL Campus and community Rochester, MN Campus and community Academics &rtrif; Visiting Medical Student Clerkships Contact Rochester, Minnesota Clerkship Coordinator Mayo Clinic Siebens Building, Fifth Floor 200 First St. SW Rochester, MN 55905 Email: clerkship@mayo.edu Jacksonville, Florida Clerkship Coordinator Mayo Clinic Stabile Building 790N 4500 San Pablo Road Jacksonville, FL 32224 Email: flacomvisit@mayo.edu Phoenix/Scottsdale, Arizona Clerkship Coordinator Mayo Clinic Medical Education Office 13400 E. Shea Blvd. Scottsdale, AZ 85259 Email: arzclerkship@mayo.edu Mayo Clinic Health System Clerkship Coordinator Mayo Clinic Email: MCHSclerkship@mayo.edu How to apply Close Back to top Back to top College of Medicine & Science 200 First St. SW Rochester, MN 55905 Contact us Visit Campus locations Rochester, Minnesota Jacksonville, Florida Phoenix/Scottsdale, Arizona Schools Mayo Clinic Alix School of Medicine Mayo Clinic School of Graduate Medical Education Mayo Clinic School of Health Sciences Mayo Clinic Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences Mayo Clinic School of Continuous Professional Development More from Mayo Clinic Patient care and health information Research labs and clinical trials Giving and philanthropy For medical professionals Job openings Any use of this site constitutes your agreement to the Terms and Conditions and Privacy Policies linked below. Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination A single copy of these materials may be reprinted for noncommercial personal use only. "Mayo," "Mayo Clinic," "MayoClinic.org," "Mayo Clinic Healthy Living," and the triple-shield Mayo Clinic logo are trademarks of Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. &copy; 1998- Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research. All rights reserved.