International Observership Program Skip to main content. kumc.edu School of Health Professions School of Medicine School of Nursing University of Kansas The University of Kansas Health System The University of Kansas Cancer Center Search within this section Search all sites Academic and Student Affairs Office of International Programs Information for IRSD, Observers, and Visitors Information for Students Information for Faculty, Researchers and Physicians Information for IRSD, Observers, and Visitors International Research Skills Development Program International Observership Program Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Current Students Blackboard Webmail myKUMC Prospective Students Prospective Employees Alumni Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Patients Donors Researchers Visitors Office of International Programs Our Campuses Make a Gift Info for Office of International Programs Inbound Programs Academic and Student Affairs Office of International Programs Information for IRSD, Observers, and Visitors Inbound Programs Information for Students Information for Faculty, Researchers and Physicians Information for IRSD, Observers, and Visitors International Research Skills Development Program International Observership Program Outbound Programs Outbound Programs International Travel Advisories International Travel Registration Information International Educational Experiences Financial Awards for IEEs Global Health and International Exchange Faculty Forum Partnership Programs Partnership Programs Sino-US Advanced Health Care Exchange Modale Fellowship Program Kovac International Observership Award Dr. Archie A. Heddings Program Redford Fellowship Program Events Events Annual Global Perspectives in Nursing Roundtable Events Calendar Foundations of Global Health Series Global Bridges Program International Education Week About About Staff Announcements The Chronicle of the Office of International Programs Agreements Forms Directory Make a Gift Information for IRSD, Observers, and Visitors International Observership Program The International Observership Program is overseen by the Office of International Programs (OIP). Observers can be defined as visiting residents, physicians or medical school graduates. To apply for the 2026 cycle, please email iirpobserve@kumc.edu . This will prompt an automated response with the link to the inquiry application which should be filled out for consideration. The International Observership Program is overseen by the Office of International Programs (OIP). Individuals participating in this program through the Office of International Programs are generally International Medical Graduates regardless of immigration status. Observers can be defined as visiting residents, physicians or medical school graduates. Current medical students are ineligible for observerships. International observerships are limited to a four (4)-week visit. During this time, international observers will strictly observe patient treatment or clinical work while accompanied at all times by sponsoring supervisor or designated attending physician. International observers are not permitted to engage in any patient care or be left alone with patients. Individuals may observe in the same department as a family member, but cannot be directly supervised by a family member. International Observership Program Inquiries and Placements for Calendar Year 2026. Thank you for your interest in our programs! OIP manages the programs and the communication between the international requester and the department . Contacting clinicians, researchers, and department personnel on your own outside of this process may result in your ineligibility for observerships. Due to clinical capacity, placements are extremely limited in availability. While we cannot guarantee a placement , we can collect information from you that will help us potentially facilitate an opportunity for you. To assist you with your request, we need our online survey completed. The annual inquiry submission window is 15 October-15 December . Requests after 15 December will not be processed. If you decide to continue with the application process despite no guarantee of placement in a program, note that a fee of $50 USD will be assessed for each program inquiry received. This fee is mandatory and non-refundable and doesn't guarantee a host. However, program inquiries will not be reviewed until payment is received. IMPORTANT: The International Observership Program is a fee-based program. The International applicant is responsible for paying the fees to participate. The standard fee charged for the program is $3,000 for the month. SPECIFIC DEPARTMENT NOTES: Pediatrics does not accept observers. Obstetrics and Gynecology does not accept observers. Pathology and Laboratory Medicine will not accept applicants in June or July. Cardiovascular Medicine accepts two observers per month. Contact Us To apply for the 2026 cycle, please email iirpobserve@kumc.edu. This will prompt an automated response with the link to the inquiry application which should be filled out for consideration. When inquiring for the online survey, please do not attach any documents. Academic and Student Affairs University of Kansas Medical Center Office of International Programs 2091, 2092, 2093 Delp Academic Affairs Mail Stop 3033 3901 Rainbow Boulevard Kansas City, KS 66160 Make a Gift 3901 Rainbow Boulevard, Kansas City, KS 66160 | 913-588-5000 About Calendar News Careers Facebook opens in new tab Twitter opens in new tab YouTube opens in new tab Instagram opens in new tab LinkedIn opens in new tab &copy; 2026 The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university&rsquo;s programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following person has been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and procedures and is the Title IX Coordinator for all KU and KUMC campuses: Associate Vice Chancellor for the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu , Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY. Reports can be submitted by contacting the Title IX Coordinator as provided herein or using the Title IX online report form and complaints can be submitted with the Title IX Coordinator or using the Title IX online complaint form . Free Expression Statement | Privacy Statement | Notice of Privacy Practices | Consumer Information We use cookies to analyze our traffic & provide social media features. Visit the KU Medical Center Privacy Statement for more information. By closing this window & browsing this site, you agree to our use of cookies.