Baptist Health South Florida | Top Doctors and Hospitals Skip to main content Need Help? Call 1-833-692-2784 Espa&ntilde;ol Careers Giving Location: City (Zipcode) Pay a Bill Sign In to My Account Baptist Health Find a Doctor Locations Services Menu Search Appointments Sign In to My Account Español I would like to Find a Doctor Search Locations Browse Services Request an Appointment Baptist Health Resources Get Care Now Patient Resources International Services Academics & Learning For Professionals About Baptist Health Appointments Pay a Bill Call 1-833-692-2784 Careers Giving Close Main Menu Update Your Preferred Location Select your preferred location for care to help us show doctors and facilities that are conveniently located near you. ZIP Code Use precise location Precise location unavailable, please enable location in your browser settings or enter a Zip Code manually Remember my location Update Location Back Search Baptist Health Close Search Home Baptist Health Welcome to the Warmer Side of Care. There are many sides of care at Baptist Health. And each one stays true to our values. Bringing humanity, warmth and understanding to every person that walks through our doors. Find a Doctor Connect with the right specialist for your needs. Search our network of expert doctors and schedule care that&rsquo;s close to home. Find a Location With convenient locations across South Florida, you&rsquo;ll find Baptist Health care wherever you need it, close, accessible, and trusted. Schedule an Appointment Easily schedule your appointment with Baptist Health. Expert care is just a click away, close to home, convenient, and trusted. Medical Records Our Services Patient Resources Download the PineApp Pay A Bill Get Care Now Virtual Care Urgent Care Primary Care I want to video chat with a doctor online. The Baptist Health PineApp provides immediate virtual access to licensed doctors and experts anywhere, 24/7 without ever leaving your home. Get Started I want to find an urgent care near me. Search Use my Current Location I want to book an appointment with a Baptist Health Primary Care doctor. Search Use my Current Location You have options: Virtual Care Urgent Care Emergency Room Primary Care What Option is right for me? A Notice to Patients about the Oracle Health/Cerner Breach Notice of Data Breach Oracle Health, formerly Cerner, is an electronic health record vendor for many healthcare providers, including Baptist Health South Florida. On March 7, 2025, Baptist Health became aware that an unauthorized third party gained access to and obtained some of our patients&rsquo; protected health information, which was maintained on Oracle Health/Cerner systems. The vendor determined that their systems may have been compromised as early as January 22, 2025, affecting the information of many health care providers, including Baptist Health. The breach was limited to Oracle Health/Cerner systems. Baptist Health computer systems were not affected . The impacted information may have included social security numbers and information from patient medical records such as medical record numbers, doctors, diagnoses, medicines, test results, images, care and treatment. Federal law enforcement asked that affected organizations delay patient notification as they conducted their investigation. Affected individuals are now receiving notification letters and are being offered credit monitoring services at no charge. Individuals who have questions about the event may contact 833-931-5335 and provide engagement number B149213. We sincerely apologize for this incident and assure you that protecting your information remains a top priority for Baptist Health. Explore Our Services Expert Care for Every Step of Your Health Journey. View All Services Brain & Spine Care Innovative neurological treatments paired with personal support, helping patients manage conditions of the brain, spine, and nervous system. Services Part 2 - 58x58 Cancer Care Advanced treatments and compassionate support, close to home in South Florida. Our cancer specialists are here to guide you every step of the way. Services Heart & Vascular Care Leading-edge heart care, from prevention to complex surgery, delivered by experts who put your health and recovery first. Services Orthopedic & Sports Medicine Comprehensive bone, joint, and muscle care to keep you moving, whether you&rsquo;re healing from an injury or preparing for joint replacement surgery. Services Primary Care Your trusted partner for health, at every life stage. From check-ups to chronic care, our Primary Care keeps you well and cared for. Baptist Health Primary Care Same-Day Care Need care today? Same-Day Care offers fast access to in-person or virtual urgent services so you don&rsquo;t wait when time matters. Same Day Care Why Choose Baptist Health Baptist Health is South Florida&rsquo;s trusted healthcare leader, bringing together expert physicians, advanced technology, and compassionate care. Families choose us because we offer: World-Class Expertise Nationally recognized doctors across more than 100 specialties, from heart and cancer care to orthopedics and women&rsquo;s health. Advanced Technology Leading-edge diagnostic imaging, robotic surgery, and innovative treatment options that deliver accurate answers and better outcomes. Decades of Trust Generations of families have counted on Baptist Health for excellence in care and a commitment to community well-being. Comprehensive Network With hospitals, urgent care centers, and outpatient facilities across South Florida, high-quality care is always close to home. Personalized Care We listen, guide, and support you with compassion every step of the way. Discover The Difference of Care Centered on You All Your Healthcare Needs, One Convenient App. With PineApp you can access online urgent care 24/7, easily manage your Baptist Health appointments, access your medical records and much more. Learn More Download on the App Store Get it on Google Play &#8203; Together, we will Power Extraordinary Our focus on innovation and impact moves us forward and enables us to continue fulfilling our mission of delivering exceptional healthcare to our community.” Bo Boulenger President & CEO, Baptist Health &#8203; News & Podcasts News View All Roundup: Grip Strength and Walking Speed May Help Signal High Stroke Risk; and More News May 15, 2026 Weak Grip and Slow Walking May Signal Higher Stroke Risk, Researchers Find Simple measures of muscle function, such as grip strength and walking speed, may help identify people at higher risk for... Why and When You Should Get a Mammogram—and What You Can Expect May 15, 2026 Roughly 375,000 cases of breast cancer were diagnosed in the U.S. last year, according to the American Cancer Society. With the incidence continuing to rise—particularly among younger... First Patient Treated with Proton Therapy at Lynn Cancer Institute May 14, 2026 The Eugene M. & Christine E. Lynn Cancer Institute at Boca Raton Regional Hospital, part of Baptist Health, reached an important milestone in the advancement of cancer care with the successful... Podcasts View All Brain Tumors: What to Watch For and When to Get Help May 13, 2026 What are brain tumors, who is at risk, and what symptoms should you never ignore? In this episode of Baptist Health Talk, we break down the most searched questions about brain tumors, including... Listen Reverse Heart Aging? Exercise, Sleep, Diet and the Truth About Heart Health May 6, 2026 Can you reverse heart aging—or at least slow it down? In this episode of Baptist HealthTalk, Sandra Peebles is joined by Dr. Jonathan Fialkow, chief medical executive of Integrated Services and... Listen Scared of Surgery? How Modern Surgery Has Changed Everything April 29, 2026 Thinking about surgery can feel overwhelming—but it doesn’t have to be. In this episode of Baptist Health Talk, Dr. Juan Carlos Verdeja, Chief of General Surgery, breaks down what general surgeons... Listen Your generosity can make a difference in the lives of those who need it most. Donate Today Baptist Health For Physicians For Nurses For Employees Facebook X Youtube Instagram Linkedin TikTok Patient Resources My Baptist Health Account Pay a Bill Insurance Accepted Pre-Registration Billing & Financial Assistance Price Transparency International Patients Classes, Events and Support Groups Medical Records Advance Directive Patient & Family Advisory Council Hotel Visitor Guidelines About Baptist Health Locations News & Stories Newsroom Careers Giving Fulfilling Our Mission Purchasing Philosophy Baptist Health Innovations Volunteer Volunteer Handbook Research For Professionals For Physicians For Nurses For Employees For Board Members For Payors For Tenants For Vendors Baptist Health Medical Group Baptist Health Quality Network Academics & Learning Residencies & Fellowships Certificate Programs Student & Visitor Programs Continuing Medical Education Download the PineApp Today Download on the App Store Get it on Google Play Copyright &copy; 2026 Baptist Health. All Rights Reserved. HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Accessibility Statement | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Sitemap Language Preference / Preferencia de idioma I want to see the site in English Continue In English Quiero ver el sitio en Español Continuar en español I want to save my language preference for the future We use cookies to give you the best possible experience. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our use of cookies. Please review our Privacy Policy to learn more. Accept Want to finish this later? If you’d like to complete this appointment request form later, we can save your responses for 48 hours so you can come back and finish your submission. Prefer to talk to a member of our team? We’re here to help. Call 786-596-2000 . Email me a reminder Email Address Save Responses Close