Henry Ford Health | Henry Ford Health - Detroit, MI Jump to Cookie Consent Skip to main content Contact Us Careers Get an Estimate Make a Gift Pay Your Bill X Doctors Locations Services Patient Portals Contact Pay Your Bill More About Careers Classes & Events Clinical Trials Contact Us HAP Henry Ford Innovations LiveWell Blog Maps & Directions Medical Education News Patients & Visitors Quality & Safety Research Referring Physician Office Close Doctors Locations Services Patient Portals More Connect with Us Classes & Events Contact Us LiveWell Blog Make a Gift Medical Records Pay Your Bill Resources About Us For Healthcare Professionals News Patients & Visitors Referring Physician Office Research & Education Clinical Trials Henry Ford Innovations Medical Education Quality & Safety Research X Doctors Locations Services Patient Portals More Connect with Us Classes & Events Contact Us LiveWell Blog Make a Gift Medical Records Pay Your Bill Resources About Us For Healthcare Professionals News Patients & Visitors Referring Physician Office Research & Education Clinical Trials Henry Ford Innovations Medical Education Quality & Safety Research This is Where We Live Revolutionary breakthroughs. Round-the-clock research. Relentless care. It only matters once it makes a real impact on our neighbors here at home. This is what we live for. Because this is where we live. We Are Henry. Schedule an appointment Doctors Search our providers by specialty, location and language and make an appointment online or by phone. Find a doctor Locations We have sites throughout Michigan. Find a location that's convenient for you. Search locations Services Browse through the list of services we offer and learn about care and treatment options. Browse services Same-Day Care Make an in-person or virtual appointment, or visit one of our urgent care centers or emergency rooms. Explore care options Manage your health with Henry Ford MyChart Keeping up with your health can sometimes feel like a full time job. Create an online account to stay on top of appointments, test results and so much more. Schedule Appointments Pay Your Bill Renew Your Prescription Get an Estimate Access Your Test Results Log in Learn more Trending now From medical innovations to trending health topics and wellness information that's important to you and your family, you'll find the latest news from Henry Ford Health here. Featured 'Like night and day': Groundbreaking HIFU treatment brings life-changing relief for tremor patients Latest Headlines May 14 Henry Ford Hospital reaches major milestone in $2.2B expansion May 13 Free Opioid Overdose Reversing Kits Now Available Through Vending Machine at Henry Ford Macomb Hospital All News LiveWell Blog May 15 What To Know About The Latest Treatments For Bladder Cancer May 14 The Truth About Mole Changes & Skin Cancer All Blogs Wellness is in Bloom Tackle Seasonal Allergies No More Rash Worries Go Where the Pros Go Tackle Seasonal Allergies No More Rash Worries Go Where the Pros Go Higher-strength allergy relief is available Don't let seasonal allergies get in the way of enjoying the warmer weather. Find relief from symptoms like itchy eyes, runny nose, sore throat and recurring headaches. Henry Ford Primary Care doctors can provide higher-strength treatments than over-the-counter options. Find a Primary Care Doc Get answers this rash season Rashes can appear on the skin for a variety of reasons. Did you know that spring is peak season for reactions from Poison Ivy? Whether you brush up against something outdoors or you have a chronic condition like eczema dn rosacea that can worsen as temperatures rise, our Henry Ford Dermatologists will find the most effective treatment that works for you. Find a Dermatologist Get relief from a sports-related injury Don’t let an injury keep you on the sidelines this spring. If you have a sports-related injury or condition, Henry Ford Sports Medicine can help you get back in the game. Find a Location We Are Henry Whether it's the challenge of a marathon or the sprint to save lives with specialized care, these stories highlight what it means to be Henry. ICU nurse's first mammogram detects breast cancer By all accounts, Donna Pompa of Northville, has been the picture of health. An intensive care nurse for 15 years before devoting herself to raising her daughter, Donna has led an active healthy lifestyle including exercising and gardening. At age 40, Donna obtained her first mammogram at Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital and the screening revealed potentially alarming news. Read Donna's story Living easier after weight loss surgery After discussing her options with her Henry Ford Health bariatric surgery team, and with the support of her family and pastor, Crystal Crump chose to have a Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, performed by bariatric surgeon Bilal Kharbutli, M.D., at Henry Ford Wyandotte Hospital. Read Crystal's Story Cardiac rehab helps man reclaim his life The Henry Ford Health Cardiac Rehabilitation program is for people who have left the hospital after a heart attack, heart procedure or heart failure. Participation in a cardiac rehabilitation program after a qualifying event is supported by the strongest possible level of evidence. Benefits include significant reductions in cardiovascular complications as well as improvements in quality of life. Read Mark's Story Henry Ford Health + HAP Care and coverage, together: Compare Medicare Advantage options built around Henry Ford Health Find my plan Recognized for clinical excellence Henry Ford Health is one of the nation's leading academic medical centers, partnering with more than 2 million people on their health journey in communities across Michigan and around the world. We provide a full suite of health services including primary and preventative care, complex and specialty care, health insurance, home health and virtual care, and retail including pharmacy and eye care. 110 Years helping patients A name you can trust since 1915. 3,000 Active research projects Our dedicated staff is working to improve human life in the science and art of healthcare. 550 Locations in Michigan Convenient care close to home. 50,000 Team members We are committed to leading the way in health and innovation. About Henry Ford Back to Top Connect With Us Careers Contact Make a Gift Medical Records Pay Your Bill Volunteer Patients & Visitors Campus Information Get an Estimate Classes & Events Maps & Directions Price Transparency Resources Wellness Blog Learn More About Henry Ford Health Community Health HAP News Privacy & Security Notice of Breach Research & Education For Healthcare Professionals Henry Ford Medical Group Henry Ford Innovations Medical Education Quality & Safety Research Follow us on Facebook Follow us on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on YouTube Follow us on LinkedIn © 2026 Henry Ford Health Language Assistance and Auxiliary Aids Website Terms of Use English Espa&ntilde;ol العربية বাংলা Deutsch 中文 中文 Fran&ccedil;ais ܐܫܘܪܝܐ Polski Shqip Italiano Tagalog हिदी 한국어 Tiếng Việt 日本語 Русский язык Srpski Македонски اردو Rom&acirc;nă X Cookie Consent We use cookies to improve your website experience. By using this site, you agree to our Terms of Use . Read our Internet Privacy Statement to learn what information we collect and how we use it. Accept All Dismiss