Graduate Medical Education | UC Davis School of Medicine search Search All UC Davis Health Main Menu add menu Main Menu Open global navigation modal close Main Menu Close global navigation modal Main Menu remove UC Davis Health Home Patients & Visitors Services & Specialties Health Care Professionals Schools & Programs Research News About UC Davis Health Giving Careers search Search &times; Search All UC Davis Health Search All UC Davis Health Search Search enhanced by Google close Search All UC Davis Health Search All UC Davis Health Search Search enhanced by Google Show menu menu Menu Graduate Medical Education arrow_forward Prospective Applicants chevron_right chevron_left Back Prospective Applicants arrow_forward We train the health care providers of tomorrow, today, offering professionals the knowledge, skills and abilities to deliver exemplary care. Residency and Fellowship Programs Applying for a Postgraduate Position Eligibility Requirements for Non-US Citizens and International Medical Graduates Visiting Residents California Medical Board Licensing Requirements Housing Notices Why UC Davis Living in Sacramento Current Residents and Fellows chevron_right chevron_left Back Current Residents and Fellows arrow_forward Elevate your medical journey. Policies Resident Committee Additional Resources Report a Concern MedHub Success and Well-Being chevron_right chevron_left Back Success and Well-Being arrow_forward Prioritizing your well-being: Supporting our residents and fellows every step of the way. Wellness Program Professional Development Quality Improvement and Patient Safety Inclusive Excellence Wellness and Development Workshops Family Medicine Network Our Team Graduate Medical Education | UC Davis School of Medicine Graduate Medical Education Advancing Medical Excellence Preparing future physician leaders through our nationally recognized programs. Explore our programs Welcome message What We Do UC Davis Health faculty provide residents and fellows with mentorship in a supportive and challenging educational environment in state-of-the-art facilities, where individuals participate in delivering safe, ethical, and leading-edge care. 850+ full-time residents and fellows in our clinical training programs 75 ACGME-accredited training programs (Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education) 110+ Training Programs , both ACGME and non-ACGME residency and fellowship programs Resources for Prospective Applicants fact_check Application Requirements how_to_reg California Medical Licensing Requirements groups Visiting Residents list_alt Non-US Citizens Requirements Your Voice Matters Resident Medical Staff Committee The resident forum provides an avenue to discuss concerns and be involved in improvements for clinical processes and patient care. Learn more Live and Work in a Vibrant Community Why Choose UC Davis School of Medicine? As one of the nation&rsquo;s leading medical schools and research institutions &ndash; we rank in the top 10 for family medicine, primary care and diversity &ndash; our faculty and staff are instrumental in preparing students and trainees to live a life of impact. Explore more arrow_forward Living in Sacramento Sacramento and its surrounding region is a uniquely situated and dynamic location offering an abundance of local farmer&rsquo;s markets, nationally acclaimed restaurants that offer farm-to-fork cuisine, a variety of outdoor recreational sports, family-friendly events, art and culture. Explore more arrow_forward The UC Davis Community We have campuses located in both Davis and Sacramento offering a wide variety of resources to help faculty and staff at each stage in their career. Learn more about what each campus has to offer. Explore more arrow_forward Training Verifications Post Graduate Training Verification Training verification can only be completed by the specific training program directors. Use the link below to locate the program and department for contact information. Please note: Some departments charge a nominal fee for this service. If your residency training was completed prior to 1975, please contact our Human Resources Department at 916-734-5335 to process this request. View Program Listing Resident/Fellow Success and Well-Being groups Inclusive Excellence We support our residents and fellows with a wide range of services and programs designed to promote equity and belonging in our community. Development We advance our trainees’ professional development and academic success through workshops and personalized and team coaching opportunities. volunteer_activism Wellness Access support and resources needed to protect your well-being with mental health, other medical services and ongoing wellness programming. verified_user Quality Improvement and Patient Safety We’re committed to continually improving clinical quality and patient safety, enhancing education, and engaging interprofessional teams. Contact our Team The Office of Graduate Medical Education is here to help you. Please let us know how! Team Contacts Awards and Recognition chevron_left Previous chevron_right Next Ranked in Tier 1, or top, category for primary care U.S. News & World Report ranked the UC Davis School of Medicine in Tier 1 (top tier) for primary care training. Learn more Ranked highly for medical research U.S. News & World Report ranked the UC Davis School of Medicine in Tier 2 for research. Learn more Most graduates in primary care U.S. News & World Report ranked UC Davis School of Medicine No. 16 in the country for most graduates practicing in primary care. Learn more Learn More About Rankings Graduate Medical Education UC Davis School of Medicine Education Building 4610 X Street, Suite 4202 Sacramento, CA 95817 gmeoffice@health.ucdavis.edu Resident and Fellows avenues to Report a Concern Crisis Services for Residents and Fellows Medical Center Children&rsquo;s Hospital Rehabilitation Hospital Neighborhood clinics School of Medicine Betty Irene Moore School of Nursing Medical Group ABOUT UC DAVIS HEALTH About Us Contact Us Social Media Maps and Directions FOR PATIENTS MyUCDavisHealth Find a Provider or Faculty Clinic Locations Clinical Trials Referring Physicians Help Paying Your Bill Price Transparency COVID-19 Resources WE ARE PART OF UC Davis University of California Health University of California &copy; 2026 UC Regents. All Rights Reserved | Terms & Conditions | Privacy Policy | Web Accessibility 4301 X St., Sacramento, CA 95817