University of Utah Health Skip to main content Main navigation Find a Doctor Locations Patients & Visitors Patient Services Patient Services Questions About Your Bill? Urgent Care Where to Stay Patient & Family Services Visitor Policy COVID & Vaccine Information Clinical Trials University of Utah Hospital Main navigation University of Utah Hospital Staying at the Hospital Parking & Valet Looking for Another Location? General Questions Main navigation 801-581-2668 Find an Interpreter About U of U Health Education & Research Education Main navigation Education Spencer Fox Eccles School of Medicine College of Pharmacy College of Nursing College of Health School of Dentistry Research Main navigation Research Improving Health Through Innovation Clinical Trials & Research Studies Community Main navigation Community Giving Billing & Insurance My Chart Search Menu University of Utah Health Transforming Health Together. Find a Doctor Find a Location Find a Service Información en Español World-Class Health Care in Your Neighborhood As the only academic medical center in Utah, University of Utah Health strives to provide the best health care science has to offer. From our conveniently located health centers to our hospitals and centers, some of the world's brightest minds are working tirelessly to make health care better for you. We are here to make your health more accessible, more affordable, and more precise than ever before—even if you just need a physical. Find a Health Center Near You Log into MyChart Emergency Department & Urgent Care Locations We are here for life’s emergencies. If you need help right away, call 911. Our conveniently located emergency department and urgent care locations help you access care when and where you need it. Emergency departments treat life-threatening symptoms. Urgent care is for problems that can’t wait but aren’t life threatening. Check current wait times and locations before you go. Go to the Emergency Room for Serious Concerns: Chest pain, trouble breathing, or signs of stroke Severe injuries such as major fractures, head trauma, or uncontrolled bleeding Sudden, severe pain or symptoms that threaten life or health See Emergency Department Locations and Current Wait Times Go to Urgent Care for Less Threatening Problems: Minor injuries like small cuts, sprains, or mild fractures Common illnesses like colds, flu, ear infections, or sore throats Urgent but non-life-threatening issues See Urgent Care Locations and Current Wait Times For You. For Life. Explore Our Services Primary Care Staying well means caring for your health every day. Our primary care providers offer routine screenings, disease management and prevention, and healthy habit suggestions to keep you at your best. Women&#039;s Health We care for women of all ages in all stages. We offer OB/GYN checkups, preventive health screenings, midwife care, and more. Our specialties include breast and reproductive health. We also specialize in gynecological cancer treatment. Pediatrics We provide a long list of pediatric services in collaboration with Primary Children’s Hospital. Our providers located throughout the Mountain West care for your child from infancy to adulthood. Heart Health Our Cardiovascular Center at University of Utah Hospital includes heart care, heart surgery, and treatment for all types of heart disease. See All the Services We Offer The Latest Offerings from U of U Health HealthFeed May 13, 2026 How Mindfulness Can Improve Your Mental Health and Reduce Stress Here's how mindfulness, a practice of paying attention to present moment experiences with curiosity and compassion, can help at times when feeling stressed and overwhelmed. Read More HealthFeed May 12, 2026 Light Adjustable Lens (LAL): A New Way to Customize Vision After Cataract Surgery What if your vision could be fine-tuned after cataract surgery? Learn more about how the Light Adjustable Lens (LAL) makes it possible with no extra procedure needed. Read More Patient Stories May 11, 2026 After 30 Years of Teaching, Modern Dance Professor Emeritus Has Pain Relief Thanks to Non-Invasive Spine Treatment Brent Schneider has been dancing for most of his life. Before becoming a faculty member in the Department of Modern Dance in the early nineties, he performed with Repertory Dance... Read More Press Release May 11, 2026 New Program to Address Perinatal and Reproductive Mental Health Needs Addressing a critical care gap, a new outpatient program at Huntsman Mental Health Institute provides compassionate, patient-centered care for adults navigating perinatal and reproductive mental health challenges. Read More HealthFeed May 11, 2026 Is Caffeine Safe During Pregnancy? Worried your daily coffee habit could harm your pregnancy? Here’s what the latest research says about caffeine, miscarriage risk, and how much is actually safe. Read More News Press Release May 08, 2026 Study Reveals Why Older Adults Are Using Cannabis Edibles A new study finds that many older adults start cannabis seeking more effective or non-pharmaceutical options to manage sleep, pain, or mental health, basing their decisions on word of mouth... Read More Read More Stories About U of U Health Site Links About Us Academics & Research Billing Find an Interpreter Jobs Giving Maps & Directions Newsroom Referring Providers Helpful Links Price Transparency Patient Rights & Responsibilities Patient Privacy Visitor Policy Disclaimer Digital Accessibility Website Privacy Notice DNV Public Information Policy Non-Discrimination Policy Surprise Billing Rights Webmaster 50 North Medical Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84132 801-581-2121 Scheduling: 801-213-9500 En Español: 801-646-5914 Copyright © 2026 University of Utah Health Close Service line menu Find a Doctor Locations Patients & Visitors Patient Services Questions About Your Bill? Urgent Care Where to Stay Patient & Family Services Clinical Services COVID & Vaccine Information University of Utah Hospital University of Utah Hospital Staying at the Hospital Parking & Valet Looking for Another Location? General Questions 801-581-2668 Find an Interpreter About U of U Health Education & Research Education Spencer Fox Eccles School of Medicine College of Pharmacy College of Nursing College of Health School of Dentistry Research Improving Health Through Innovation Clinical Trials & Research Studies Community Billing & Insurance MyChart Search