Office of Postdoctoral Services (OPS) | Duke Research & Innovation Skip to main Menu Close Utility menu Primary navigation Loading... Office of Postdoctoral Services (OPS) Skip to content IN THIS SECTION Research Support Offices Office of Postdoctoral Services (OPS) Postdoctoral appointees are an integral part of the research endeavor at Duke University. The Office of Postdoctoral Services (OPS) is the central resource for postdoctoral appointees on campus, and serves as a liaison between postdocs, faculty, administrators, and staff. What is the DUke Office of postdoctoral services? The Duke Office of Postdoctoral Services (OPS) promotes postdoctoral training at Duke and prepares Duke postdocs for successful careers both within and beyond academia. OPS works side-by-side with the Duke University Postdoctoral Association (DUPA) to address the needs and concerns of postdocs. The OPS also partners with the Duke Career Center, the Graduate School, and the Faculty Development Program in the School of Medicine to provide programming relevant to postdocs, grad students, and junior faculty. Explore some of the available postdoc positions at Duke Are you a prospective postdoc? Explore Why Duke . The Duke Office of Postdoctoral Services Provides: Loading... Postdoctoral Policies and Forms Guidance on postdoctoral appointments, policies, and benefits for postdocs, departmental staff, and faculty. See Postdoc policies and forms Loading... Postdoctoral resources Duke offers resources that are helpful whether you are just starting your position at Duke or seeking your next career opportunity. Learn about Postdoctoral Resources Loading... Career Counseling Individual career counseling (including resume, CV, cover letter, research/teaching statement critiques, and mock interviews) for Postdoctoral Associates and Postdoctoral Scholars. Email Molly Starback, Director, for an appointment Loading... Postdoctoral Professional Development The Duke Office of Postdoctoral Services hosts professional development seminars, panels, and programs throughout the year. Learn more here Loading... Postdoctoral Awards The Office of Postdoctoral Services sponsors yearly awards, including: Outstanding Postdoc and Outstanding Postdoc Mentor Awards and Postdoctoral Awards for Professional Development . Learn more Loading... Subscribe to the Postdoc Mailing List Duke Postdoc Services email list provides information on upcoming professional and social events, job opportunities, and more. All members of the Duke community may join the mailing list using their Duke email address. To subscribe, email sympa@duke.edu with the subject line: "subscribe postdocs" Postdoc Options for Reporting Harassment & Misconduct Report Harassment If you have a concern about discrimination or harassment, please report the incident. Report Harassment Report Misconduct If you have a concern about research misconduct, please report the incident. Report research misconduct If you want to understand the options and processes for reporting harassment, discrimination, and other concerns, please use the interactive guide for postdocs Postdoctoral Statistics The Duke Office of Postdoctoral Services provides annually updated statistics on our postdoc population. POSTDOC STATISTICS - ALL DEPARTMENTS STATISTICS FOR THE COALITION FOR NEXT GENERATION LIFE SCIENCE Our Team There are no People items to show. Duke Research & Innovation 421 Chapel Dr Box 90037, Allen Bldg 119 Durham, NC 27708-9984 vpri@duke.edu myRESEARCHhome Copyright © 2026 Duke University Accessibility Privacy Statement