Radiology Department Observership Programs - Brigham and Women's Hospital skip to Cookie Notice Skip to contents Utility Navigation Locations Find a Doctor Request Appointment Patient Gateway Giving Search Quick Links Departments & Services Directions & Parking Medical Records Physical Therapy (PT) Primary Care Volunteer Site Navigation Patients and Families Medical Professionals Research Header Skipped. Home Departments & Services Radiology Education and Training Observerships Back to Education and Training Radiology Observerships Brigham and Women's Hospital Department of Radiology offers an observership program through the Continuing Medical Education office. The Department of Radiology offers 12 sections to observer (only one section per week), provided space is available. Anyone interested must apply through this office. Departmental sections include: Abdominal Imaging and Intervention Observership in the Abdominal Imaging and Intervention division will allow the attendees to update their knowledge in all the imaging modalities and practice areas associated with abdominal imaging, including hepatobiliary, GI, GU and GYN imaging as well as percutaneous interventional procedures. This program is designed to expose the participant to a wide range of abdominal and pelvic CT, MRI, ultrasound, and interventional radiology procedures. The observers will be exposed to state-of-the-art techniques and specialized studies such as prostate MRI, rectal MRI, MRCP, MR elastography, CT colonography and MR enterography. The interventional radiology procedures performed by the Division of Abdominal Imaging and Intervention include fine needle aspiration biopsy, large needle (core) biopsy, catheter drainage of fluid collections, and minimally invasive interventional procedures including radiofrequency, cryoablations, microwave, and irreversible electroporation of the lesions in the abdomen, pelvis, lung, and bone. The program curriculum includes didactic lectures, participation in the daily read-out sessions, daily interesting case rounds and tumor boards which allow a rich educational experience. AMIGO (Advanced Multimodality Image Guided Operating Suite) The Advanced Multimodality Image Guided Operating (AMIGO) suite is a cutting-edge medical and surgical research environment. It houses advanced imaging equipment and surgical systems, enabling multidisciplinary teams to efficiently guide treatment before, during, and after surgery. This innovative suite fosters collaboration among surgeons, radiologists, physicists, computer scientists, engineers, nurses, and technologists. Physician Scientists use the AMIGO to incorporate research protocols designed to enhance standard clinical procedures and to develop new therapeutic approaches. Procedures that you may observe in AMIGO include: Neurosurgery (Brain tumor resection, Deep brain stimulation, Transsphenoidal pituitary tumor resection, Laser brain ablation, Brain biopsy, Skull base); Interventional Radiology; Ablation (Cryoablation (MR, PET/CT) Kidney+, Microwave (PET/CT, MR) Liver,+, RF ablation, IRE); Biopsy (MRI Guided Prostate, Lung Biopsy (MRI, PET/CT); Endocrine Surgery, Breast Conserving Surgery. Angiography and Interventional Radiology The section performs a wide range of vascular and nonvascular interventional procedures in four state of the art interventional suites. There are two outpatient Vascular and Vein Care Centers for minimally invasive therapies for venous disease. The day begins with morning rounds. Elective and emergent procedures are performed by board certified interventional radiologists, who supervise the trainees. Every Tuesday and Wednesday there are didactic lectures for the trainees. Observers will be able to closely participate in the procedures and peri-procedural patient’s care. Breast Imaging The Breast Imaging Observership participants will have the opportunity to focus on diagnostic breast imaging, screening mammography, breast MRI or interventional breast procedures including biopsy, fine needle aspiration, drainage, etc, based on their needs and section activities. All visiting observers will accompany faculty as they review and interpret a wide variety of Breast Imaging examinations, including screening and diagnostic mammograms in our all digital tomosynthesis facility, breast ultrasound examinations on state-of-the-art equipment, and breast MRI examinations as well as MRI-guided procedures. In addition to the one-on-one teaching by Breast Imaging faculty during diagnostic work-ups, visiting observers will have the opportunity to review interesting case teaching files, upon request. Participants will attend case conferences, bi-weekly multi-disciplinary breast conferences including a tumor board; and a bi-weekly review focusing on radiologic-pathologic correlation of all core needle biopsy cases. Cardiovascular Imaging The division of Cardiovascular Imaging is part of a multidisciplinary and multimodality imaging program that includes nuclear cardiology, cardiac MRI, cardiac CT, echocardiography, and vascular imaging. It houses a large training program for both radiologists and cardiologists. We offer one-on-one and traditional didactic teaching to medical students, residents, and fellows. We have limited opportunities for external observers who can join all our educational activities including participation in our daily reading sessions, informal and formal case conferences and didactic teaching sessions. Emergency Radiology Our Emergency Radiology Division oversees the imaging needs (including all organ systems and modalities) of acutely ill and injured patients 24/7/365 at BWH (a Level 1 trauma center), five additional community hospitals, and multiple urgent care centers. Observership participants will be immersed in the full range of emergency cases and experience a high volume, highly efficient work environment alongside world experts in the field. We welcome you to join us! Musculoskeletal Imaging and Intervention The BWH Musculoskeletal Imaging and Intervention Observership will provide the attendee with exposure to all areas of up-to-date Musculoskeletal Diagnostic Imaging and Intervention: Radiographs, CT, MRI, Arthrography, Ultrasound, US/CT guided MSK interventions (soft tissue/bone biopsies, aspirations/injections and ablations), and CT guided Spine Interventions. Attendees can attend all divisional/interdepartmental educational conferences, lectures and daily readouts. Neuroradiology Neuroradiology primarily focuses on imaging of the central nervous system and provides diagnostic information for diseases in the brain, spine, and head and neck. Participants of observership in the Neuroradiology subspecialty will be exposed to cross-sectional modalities including CT, MR and PET as well as advanced imaging techniques such as diffusion weighted imaging, perfusion weighted imaging, MR spectroscopy, and function MRI. In addition, there are ample opportunities to observe image-guided neurointerventional procedures including cerebral and spine angiography, vertebroplasty/kyphoplasty, myelography, spine steroid injections, head, neck and spine biopsy and ablation procedures. The educational experience will also be enhanced by several multidisciplinary clinical and research conferences that take place weekly at BWH as well as local affiliated hospitals. Nuclear Medicine Including PET Scan The division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging encompasses all aspects of functional and molecular imaging and theragnostics. We offer one-on-one and traditional didactic teaching to medical students, residents, and fellows. We have limited opportunities for external observers who can join all our educational activities including participation in our daily reading sessions, informal and formal case conferences and didactic teaching sessions. Percutaneous Tumor Ablation The Tumor Ablation Observership is a tutorial in the principles and practice of image-guided percutaneous focal tumor therapies (ablation). It is intended to educate radiologists who are interested in adding ablation to their practice or expanding existing ablation capabilities. By observing procedures and on-on-one discussion with faculty, the observer learns the basic, practical elements of ablation techniques, patient management, and interpretation of post-ablation imaging. Ablation modalities used by the service include including microwave ablation, radiofrequency ablation, cryoablation, and irreversible electroporation, using CT, PET/CT, MRI, and ultrasound guidance. Thoracic Imaging The observership in Thoracic Imaging will allow the observer to observe all read-out sessions and observe interventional procedures in the chest. They will be able to attend our weekly interdisciplinary conferences including our Interstitial lung disease conference, tumor boards, radiology/pathology conferences, the thoracic surgery/pathology/radiology conference, and our weekly interesting case conference. They will be invited to all teaching conferences as well. Ultrasound Continued advances in ultrasound technology and diagnostic utility make it imperative for the radiologists to stay up-to-date on new techniques. The Ultrasound Observership, held in the Ultrasound reading room in the Department of Radiology at BWH, provides the attendees with an overview of current ultrasound practice and techniques, including 2D, 3D, and 4D sonography, Doppler, HyCoSy, and ultrasound guided needle aspiration and biopsy procedures. Attendees will be able to observe firsthand OB/Gyn, abdomen including deep Doppler, thyroid, scrotum, and neonatal studies from the experts in the field. Observers will attend a daily case conference given by the attending or fellow. The remainder of the day, attendees will accompany faculty as they review, scan, and interpret a wide variety of sonographic examinations. Observerships are a minimum of two weeks, however, longer observerships, up to a maximum of three months, can be arranged upon special request. The Cost for Brigham Radiology Observerships Course Tuition in US Dollars 2 Weeks 1 Month (4 Weeks) Physicians, PhD scientists $3,000 $4,000 Medical Students/Residents/Fellows/Allied Health Professionals $500 $1,000 Two Weeks Minimum observership Cancelation Fee: Any observer cancelling less than 2 weeks out will be charged 25% of tuition The observer may choose how they want to spend their time each week but cannot move to another division during a single week. No Observership in July, August and November 15 - January 1. To Apply If you would like to apply for an observership, please fill out the online form below and email to bwhradcme@partners.org . BWH Long Term (over 48hrs) Clinical Observational Experience Policy Application Form Complete application/paperwork from observer must be received/submitted at least 5 weeks prior to arrival. Tuition is due 2 weeks before arrival. Contact Danielle Klette Continuing Medical Education Director Email: bwhradcme@partners.org Radiology Skip navigation About Us Services For Patients and Families For Medical Professionals Education and Training The Mellins Alumni Society Medical Student Education Observerships Radiology Grand Rounds Technologist Education Directions and Accommodations The Holman Archive Research Contact and Locations FIND A RADIOLOGIST REQUEST APPOINTMENT LOCATIONS SERVICES Learn more about Brigham and Women's Hospital For over a century, a leader in patient care, medical education and research, with expertise in virtually every specialty of medicine and surgery. About BWH Stay Informed. Connect with us. Facebook X (formerly Twitter) Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Newsroom We use cookies and other tools to enhance your experience on our website and to analyze our web traffic. For more information about these cookies and the data collected, please refer to our Privacy Policy . × Brigham and Women's Hospital 75 Francis Street, Boston MA 02115 617-732-5500 Contact Us General Information: 617-732-5500 New Patients: 800-294-9999 Centers of Excellence Cancer Center Heart & Vascular Center The Lung Center Neurosciences Center Orthopaedic & Arthritis Center Primary Care Center Women's Health Center Clinical Departments Anesthesiology Dermatology Emergency Medicine Medicine Neurology Neurosurgery Obstetrics and Gynecology Orthopaedic Surgery Pathology Pediatrics Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Psychiatry Radiation Oncology Radiology Surgery Urology Quick Links About BWH Careers COVID-19 Information Education & Training Giving Health Information News Services A-Z © 2026 Brigham and Women's Hospital Accessibility Resources A-L Resources M-Z Sitemap Organized Health Care Arrangement Notice Price Transparency Patient Privacy Notice Privacy Policy/Disclaimer