The Robert Larner, M.D. College of Medicine | The University of Vermont Skip main menu Skip to main content Larner College of Medicine University of Vermont Larner College of Medicine Search Close Search All UVM Search People Menu Close Menu Menu Larner College of Medicine Explore UVM Main navigation About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics Quick links My UVM Login to your UVM Dashboard GIVE TO UVM VISIT UVM Academic Calendar Bookstore Commencement Parking and Transportation Summer University UVM News Virtual Tour quick links Login to your UVM Dashboard GIVE TO UVM VISIT UVM Academic Calendar Bookstore Commencement Parking and Transportation Summer University UVM News Virtual Tour group nav Larner College of Medicine Home About Dean&#039;s Welcome Overview Departments, Centers, Institutes, and Programs Facilities Facts and Figures Clinical Partners Continuous Quality Improvement Dean&#039;s Office Directory Academics Overview Education, Programs, and Training Medical Education Admissions College Administration Research News and Media Events Calendar and Submission Match Day Commencement White Coat Ceremony Give to Larner Contact Us Contact Us Larner College of Medicine University of Vermont E-126 Given Building Burlington, VT 05405 Phone: +18026562156 COMOfficeOfTheDean@med.uvm.edu Explore Technology Services COMET/VIC Portal Dana Health Sciences Library COMMONS CMIE OASIS Medical Communications Website Reporting Form Connect Facebook X/Twitter You Tube Instagram Linkedin Bluesky Breadcrumb Home The Robert Larner, M.D. College of Medicine Explore show menu hide menu Larner College of Medicine Home About Dean&#039;s Welcome Overview Departments, Centers, Institutes, and Programs Facilities Facts and Figures Clinical Partners Continuous Quality Improvement Dean&#039;s Office Directory Academics Overview Education, Programs, and Training Medical Education Admissions College Administration Research News and Media Events Calendar and Submission Match Day Commencement White Coat Ceremony Give to Larner Contact Us hide menu Play Video Pause Video The Robert Larner, M.D. College of Medicine Innovation in Medical Education, Research, and Clinical Care Founded in 1822, the Robert Larner, M.D. College of Medicine at the University of Vermont is the seventh oldest medical school in the nation. We at the Larner College of Medicine are dedicated to developing exceptional physicians and scientists by offering innovative curriculum designs, state-of-the-art research facilities, and clinical partnerships with leading health care institutions. Our College’s commitment to excellence has earned national recognition, attracting talented students, trainees, physicians, and researchers from across the country. With a focus on intercultural excellence, the Larner College of Medicine prides itself on cultivating an environment that uplifts and supports its faculty and student populations while advancing medical education, research, and patient care in Vermont and beyond. Welcome from Dean Richard L. Page, M.D. Welcome to the UVM Robert Larner, M.D. College of Medicine. As the seventh oldest medical school in the nation, we take pride in our commitment to innovation in education. We invite you to embark on a transformative journey with us. - Richard L. Page, M.D. | Dean | UVM Chief Medical Affairs Officer Dean&#039;s Message Larner Commencement is Sunday, May 17, 2026 Celebrating the completion of medical student training with the Class of &#039;26! Commencement Information Research The UVM Larner College of Medicine receives $90 - 100 million annually in research funding. Researchers in laboratory, clinical, and community settings work toward a greater understanding of disease and wellness, as well as new, more effective treatments. Education Our mission is to educate a diverse group of dedicated physicians and biomedical scientists. With an active-learning-based curriculum, we build students&#039; practical skills, as well as their ability to synthesize information and think critically. Clinical Care In collaboration with our UVM Health partners, we deliver top-tier clinical care for patients. We integrate our research and education missions into network departments, focusing on public health, population health, health services research, and value-based care. Recent news Larner College of Medicine Announces 2026 Commencement Speakers A Week of Celebrating Professionalism Medical Alumni Siblings Honor Parents with Gift The Mission Continues … at Larner Argosy Foundation Gifts $2M to Vermont Center for Cardiovascular and Brain Health More Larner News UVM & Larner Research by the Numbers R1 Top Tier Research University (Carnegie classification) $99.9M in external funding 53% of all UVM Research Awards Top 100 Public Research University (National Science Foundation) Larner Research Highlights New Tool Can Better Diagnose Parkinson’s Disease Cardiovascular Researchers Polish Their Pitch Skills New Strategy to Stop Multiple Sclerosis Progression Discovery Boost Grant Awarded to Carr and Frietze for Breast Cancer Research Skin Deep—Tracing the DNA Clues Behind Skin Cancer More Larner Research Success Stories Quick Links Larner Administration Education Admissions Communications Alumni Departments, Centers, Programs Professionalism at Larner Continuous Quality Improvement LCME Accreditation Governance, Planning, Policies Facilities Administration Edupreneurship Office (COMEO) Anatomical Gifts Office of Medical Education Graduate and Postdoctoral Education Learning Environment Student Services Teaching Academy Medical Student Admissions Graduate and Postdoctoral Training UVM Admissions UVM Professional and Continuing Education News and Media Office of Medical Communications Larner Medicine Newsletter and Archive Subscribe to Larner Medicine Newsletter! Vermont Medicine Vermont Medicine Archives Larner College of Medicine Blog Art+Science: 2023-2024 MedEd Report (Opens in Issuu) Graphics Toolbox UVM Brand Overview Media and Journalist Information Medical Development and Alumni Relations Alumni Opportunities Giving to Larner Professionalism at Larner Our Larner College of Medicine community upholds the highest standards of professionalism as we follow our passion for lifelong learning and improvement. We demonstrate professionalism through integrity, accountability, compassion, altruism, and social responsibility. Professionalism Statement and Information Professionalism at Larner Our Larner College of Medicine community upholds the highest standards of professionalism as we follow our passion for lifelong learning and improvement. We demonstrate professionalism through integrity, accountability, compassion, altruism, and social responsibility. Professionalism Statement and Information Contact Larner College of Medicine E-126 Given Building 89 Beaumont Avenue Burlington, VT 05405 COMOfficeOfTheDean@med.uvm.edu (802) 656-2156 Explore Technology Services COMET/VIC Portal Dana Health Sciences Library COMMONS CMIE OASIS Medical Communications Website Reporting Form Connect Facebook X/Twitter You Tube Instagram Linkedin Bluesky University of Vermont home Accessibility Privacy/Terms of Use