VSLO | U.S. Students | UCLA Medical School Skip to main content Learn how UC is closely monitoring updates from the federal government. UCLA Health Giving Translate Search Education Education sub-navigation Pre-Med & Pre-Health Opportunities Pre-Health Guidance Center Pre-Med Enrichment Program Re-Application Program SHPEP UCLA-wide Opportunities Program Alumni Connect With Us MD Education Admissions LCME Accreditation Career Development Curriculum Current Students Degrees & Programs Financial Aid & Scholarships Research Opportunities Student Life & Events Visiting Students Medical Residencies & Fellowships Graduate Medical Education Medical Residency & Fellowship Programs Prospective Residents & Fellows Incoming Residents Current Residents Credentials Verification Graduate Students & Postdoctoral Scholars Graduate Programs in Bioscience Graduate Student Professional Development Postdoctoral Professional Development UCLA Bioscience Postdoctoral Affairs Center for Continuing Professional Development (CCPD) About Us Planners Educators Learners Sponsors Request a CE Consultation Research Research sub-navigation Training & Career Development Graduate Students & Postdoctoral Scholars MD Students Residents & Fellows Physician-Scientists Faculty Research Infrastructure Administrative Support Freezer Maintenance Manuals CTSI Resources Broad Resources Research Cores Research Computing Research Safety Careers Themed Areas Cancer Cardiovascular Research Health Equity & Translational Social Science Immunity, Inflammation, Infection & Transplantation Metabolism Research Neuroscience Research Regenerative Medicine Clinical Research ResearchGo UCLA CTSI UCLA JCCC Office of Human Subjects Protection Search for Clinical Trials Research Excellence Breakthroughs Funding Opportunities Seminar Calendar Support Science Community & Equity Community & Equity sub-navigation Office of Inclusive Excellence Office of Inclusive Excellence Overview Office of Inclusive Excellence Trailblazer Awards Events Communities Professional Development & Education Cultural North Star Culture Journey Recognitions Awards Grants Community Outreach Events Downloads Community Engagement About Careers Participate & Volunteer Pipeline Programs Project Highlights Support the Community Support & Reporting Emergency Services & Help Lines Report an Incident Reporting Resources Restorative Practices in Academic Medicine (RPAM) Support Resources Alumni & Friends 2026 Alumni Reunions Alumni News & Profiles Document Requests & Verifications Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff sub-navigation Academic Affairs Meet the Team Academic Forms & Resources Academic Review Academic Salary Department Contacts Events & Lectures Open Searches Recognition Visa & Licensing Office Academic Leadership Leadership Opportunities Executive Search Resources Chair’s Resource Center Faculty Resources Academy for Excellence in Medical Education Educational Measurement Unit Staff & Faculty Appreciation Faculty Executive Committee Professional Development Medical Education Fellowships Teacher-Learner Expectations in UME UCLA Profiles Staff Resources Cornerstone Training HR Resources Learning and Development Staff & Faculty Appreciation Staff Assembly UCLA Administrative Management Group UCLA Health Careers Wellness Behavioral Health Associates Behavioral Wellness Center Mental Health Outreach Mindfulness Resources Recreation Programs Staff & Faculty Counseling About About sub-navigation Culture & Mission 75 Years of Discovery Cultural North Star Medical School History Mission & Vision Support & Reporting Strategic Plan Why Choose UCLA? Departments Administrative Basic Science Clinical Education and Research Centers Research Institutes Rankings & Awards Wilbur S. Schwartz MD Prize for Kindness, Compassion, and Humanity Medical School Rankings Awards for Education Faculty Achievements Celebration Exceptional Physician Awards Leonard Tow Humanism in Medicine Award Sherman M. Mellinkoff Faculty Award The Switzer Prize Leadership Direct from the Dean Academic Leadership Education Leadership Inclusive Excellence Leadership Research Leadership Plan Your Visit COVID-19 Information Contact & Directions Emergencies Virtual Tours News Social Media UCLA Health News UCLA Newsroom UCLA Health Close the search dialog Search Try looking up topics of interest. Search Press to search Or jump to search for: UCLA Health Alumni COVID-19 Information Emergencies Why Choose UCLA? Patient Care Visiting Campus Breadcrumb Home Education MD Education Visiting Students VSLO - Visiting Student Learning Opportunities VSLO - Visiting Student Learning Opportunities Visiting Students Open section navigation VSLO VSLO for U.S. Students Helpful resources for VSLO applicants The David Geffen School of Medicine (DGSOM) at UCLA uses the AAMC Visiting Student Learning Opportunities ( VSLO ) program, to receive applications from US medical and osteopathic students. VSLO Application Apply to the VSLO program. Catalog 2026-2027 elective courses for U.S visiting students. Calendar Typical three-week blocks for electives. Handbook DGSOM medical student policies and guidelines. Please do not email personal statements or letters of interest to course chairs or coordinators. DGSOM only reviews the required documents submitted on VSLO. 2026-2027 Rotation Timeline VSLO Catalog Opens for Viewing: January 26th at 8am PST Applications Open: March 9th 2026 at 8am PST VSLO Requirements for U.S. Students Eligibility Our electives are open to fourth-year students only. VSLO applicants must be in good academic standing and actively progressing toward a Doctor of Medicine degree at an affiliated LCME-accredited institution, or a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine degree at an affiliated COCA-accredited AACOM Member Institution. Applicants must have completed their core clerkships. The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA is now using VSLO , the Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) program, to receive visiting student applications. To apply to our institution, please complete a VSLO application for your preferred electives and dates. When you apply, please do not submit more than six elective and/or date selection choices at a time through VSLO. You should only have a maximum number of six pending applications at one time. Additional applications submitted beyond the limit will be immediately rejected. VSLO Info and Application Required Certifications Certifications must cover you throughout your proposed elective time frame. Valid OSHA Certification Valid ACLS or BLS Valid Mask Fit Test - Required for all sites, but please note if you rotate through one of our LA County facilities (Harbor, OVH) you will need to use the N-95 Halyard/Kimberly-Clark mask and NOT 3M. Required Documents AAMC Standard Immunization Form - Please note that UCLA requires TB clearance within a year of your proposed elective time frame. CV - Brief account of education, qualifications, publications, etc. Transcripts - Official copy of your medical school transcript indicating successful completion of core clinical clerkships must be uploaded by your home school. Statement of Intent - Short paragraph of 150 words of less outlining why you would like to rotate in the desired department. Letter of Recommendation - A letter of recommendation is required for all electives. This letter should be from a clinical faculty member and should speak to your clinical abilities but does not have to be from the department in which you are applying unless otherwise stated. If you have waived your rights to view your letter, your home institution can upload this document to your VSLO profile, and then you can assign it to your application(s). Proof of Personal Health Insurance - You are required to submit evidence of personal health insurance (hospitalization and major medical care) during the time of the proposed clerkship. Health insurance for visitors is mandatory prior to enrollment but is NOT offered through the school. Proof may be supplied in the form of a photocopy of your health insurance ID card or a letter from the insurance carrier. HIPAA Privacy & Information Security Training - All applicants must show compliance by uploading the certificate of completion at the conclusion of the UCLA HIPAA Privacy and Information Security Training for New Workforce Members. To obtain the certificate, take the HIPAA Privacy and Information Security Training . You must watch a short video, review the slides, read the policies, take the quiz, and print out the certificate that will appear upon successful completion of the module. The UCLA module must be completed by all visiting students regardless of training done at one's home school. UCLA MITS Confidentiality Survey - For access to computerized patient information systems, please complete the following MITS Confidentiality Survey for Visiting Medical Students. Enter all the requested information directly into the form using the same email address as your VSLO application. Submit a screenshot of either, the survey confirmation, or your email confirmation to VSLO. MITS Confidentiality Survey for Visiting Students (Qualtrics Link) USMLE Step 1 Score Report or COMPLEX-USA Report - Please upload a copy of your USMLE Step 1/COMLEX-USA score report. COVID-19 Vaccination Information - Visiting students are required to follow UCLA Vaccination Policy . Additional Site Requirements The additional requirements for locations will vary. Please be sure to look through the information in this section to understand the additional requirements for clearance at our affiliated sites. UCLA Medical Centers Additional Information for Electives at the UCLA Medical Center. This Includes: Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center (RRUCLAMC) Center for Health Sciences (CHS) Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital at UCLA Semel Institute Jules Stein Institute (JSEI) UCLA Medical Plaza UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center (SM-UCLA) Bruincard ID Badge - For electives at the UCLA Medical Centers listed above, you will need to obtain a Bruincard ID Badge. Information for how to start this process will be sent to you via email before your elective begins (about a month prior to the start of your rotation). You will pick up your badge on the first day of your rotation. Please note that badges are printed with legal names only, and no degrees are included. CareConnect Access and Training - For electives at the UCLA Medical Centers listed above, you will need to complete the 3 hour online CareConnect training course before the first day of your elective. Login and training information will be sent to you via email before your elective begins. Universal Precautions & Exposure Hotline - Clinicians’ Post Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP) Line can be reached at 1-888-448-4911. Lockers - Due to space limitations, there are no lockers available to visiting students while on rotation at UCLA. Students are advised to bring only what is required with them to the hospital. Pagers -Pagers are only available to visiting students in certain departments. Please check with the department coordinator for availability. Parking - We regret that students approved for courses at UCLA do not have parking privileges unless the department to which you are assigned is able to make arrangements for you to purchase a monthly permit. Please be advised that parking at UCLA is $15 per day. Housing - Unfortunately we do not have access to university housing for visiting students. You can try the links on the application web site for possible options. Harbor-UCLA Medical Center Requirements Olive View-UCLA Medical Center Requirements (PDF) Evaluations We only provide UCLA evaluations for visiting students (VSLO). Your course coordinator will email you and your school the completed evaluation when available. All visiting students will be required to complete a brief evaluation of elective clerkships and sub-internships and on teaching faculty. Students will receive an e-mail with evaluation instructions and links to the computerized UCLA evaluation system which protects student anonymity. Visiting Student Policies All visiting students, like DGSOM students, must adhere to the following Policies including: UCLA Student Conduct Code DGSOM Professionalism Policy DGSOM Honor Code UCLA Health Code of Conduct DGSOM Attendance Policy DGSOM Technical Standards DGSOM Mistreatment Policy Blood Borne Pathogen Exposure Protocol Disclaimer: The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA is not responsible for determining whether, or in what way, the UCLA elective is to be credited toward the requirements of the home medical school, including credit toward graduation of the student at the home medical school. VSLO FAQ for U.S. Students Eligibility I already graduated from medical school. Am I eligible to rotate? No. Visiting student rotations are designed for students who are enrolled in their final year of medical school and have already completed one full year of in-hospital clinical training. I have not yet completed core clerkships in internal medicine, surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, and pediatrics, but I will complete them before I want to rotate at DGSOM. Can I apply now? Yes. Core clerkships in internal medicine, surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, and pediatrics must be completed before you can begin an elective at DGSOM. Your home school will be able to verify in VSLO the date you have or will complete a core rotation or other course. If you are accepted to a rotation, your school will need to submit an updated transcript showing successful completion of the clerkship(s) before you may begin your rotation. Can I complete multiple rotations? Yes, students are permitted to complete up to 3 electives or 9 weeks of coursework. Elective Locations Training sites are located all over the city. The elective name on VSLO has the location listed- E.g., UCLA, Harbor UCLA, Olive View UCLA, and Santa Monica are all seperate elective locations. You can refer to our Affiliate Map to see where each site is located. Additional location details can be found on the course catalog. Submitting your application When are applications due? DGSOM at UCLA will be accepting visiting medical students for the 2026-2027 academic year. DGSOM's catalog on VSLO will be viewable on Monday January 26th, 2026. Applications will open on March 9th at 8am PST. Applications must be submitted in VSLO at least two and a half months (75 days) prior to the start date of the elective. Is there a maximum number of applications I can submit at once? Yes. You can have 6 active elective, site, and/or date selection choices. Additional applications submitted beyond the limit will be rejected. E.G. if you want to apply to an elective at UCLA and one at Harbor UCLA, you could submit a maximum of 3 date ranges per elective. Can I send paperwork directly to a department or faculty member? No. All application documents and supporting material should only be submitted via VSLO. How can I find out about availability of a rotation? Availability can fluctuate daily due to add and drop requests and cannot be maintained in real time. For this reason, all electives are considered open unless they have been closed in VSLO. There is no guarantee that an elective will have availability at the time that you apply. Can I apply to electives if I haven't yet taken Step 1 or COMLEX 1? Yes. We will require proof of a passing Step 1 or COMLEX 1 score before your rotation begins. Maximum Number of Applications Is there a maximum number of applications I can submit at once? Yes. You can have 6 active elective, site, and/or date selection choices. Additional applications submitted beyond the limit will be rejected. E.G. if you want to apply to an elective at UCLA and one at Harbor UCLA, you could submit a maximum of 3 date ranges per elective. Modifying Start Dates or Course Duration The dates offered do not line up with my school’s calendar. Can I modify the dates, extend, or shorten them? Some of our electives are open to modifications such as start dates or duration, but others prefer to stick to fixed start dates. Any deviations from the standard 3-week blocks and start dates are at the discretion of the course coordinator. If you are accepted into a rotation, you can check to see if the course is open to modifications. You can find their contact information in our course catalog by searching for course numbers and then clicking on the course name. If they are, we would send you an updated offer on VSLO. Scholarships Links to different medical school scholarship opportunities for individual departments within the DGSOM system are listed here: UCLA Anesthesiology and Perioperative Medicine Visiting Student Scholarship Program UCLA Emergency Medicine Visiting Elective Scholarship Program UCLA Head and Neck Surgery Visiting Student Scholarship Program UCLA Internal Medicine Visiting Student Scholarship Program Flyer (PDF) UCLA Neurology Scholarship Program UCLA Neurosurgery Scholarship Program UCLA Obstetrics and Gynecology Visiting Student Scholarship UCLA Ophthalmology Visiting Medical Student Scholarship UCLA Pediatrics Visiting Elective Scholarship Program UCLA Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences Visiting Elective Scholarship Program UCLA Radiology Visiting Student Scholarship Program UCLA Radiation Oncology Visiting Student Scholarship UCLA Surgery Visiting Student Scholarship UCLA Surgery Visiting Student Scholarship for HBCU Students UCLA Urology Visiting Student Scholarship Program Harbor-UCLA Anesthesiology Sub-internship Scholarship Harbor-UCLA Visiting Student Scholarship in Obstetrics and Gynecology Application Review Process How are applications processed by UCLA through VSLO? Scheduling decisions are made at the elective level based on academic merit, availability, and other criteria that may vary by elective. If selected to rotate, the visiting student coordinator reviews the student’s requirements to determine eligibility. Then the offer is sent. During busy seasons, DGSOM prioritizes sending offers for the soonest upcoming months. The latest you could expect to hear back would be 60 days before the starting month of your elective. That is when applications are closed to allow time for onboarding. How can I find out about the status of my application? Please allow a minimum of 30 to 60 days for your application to be released by your home school and reviewed. Applications are reviewed in the order in which they are released to us by home schools. Please check VSLO for the most up-to-date status information. If you have questions regarding your application’s status, you may contact our office via email at dgsomelectives@mednet.ucla.edu no earlier than 30 days after you have received email notification that your application was released. Accepted Students I have been accepted to rotate, but I would like to change my scheduled block. Is this possible? This might be possible. You should reach out to the student coordinator to let you know if they can offer a different block. You can find their contact information in our course catalog by searching for course numbers and then clicking on the course name. I have been accepted to rotate, but the dates offered do not line up with my school’s calendar. Can I modify the dates, extend, or shorten them? Some of our electives are open to modifications such as start dates or durations, but others prefer to stick to fixed start dates. Any deviations from the standard 3-week blocks and start dates are at the discretion of the course coordinator. You can find their contact information in our course catalog by searching for course numbers and then clicking on the course name. What if I need Accommodations? Contact the David Geffen School of Medicine's Director of Disability Services/CAE Disability Specialist. Grace C. Clifford, MAEd Book an appointment with Grace Work Cell: 424-402-9864 (call or text) What are housing options? Although the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA does not provide housing, we encourage you to check out the Rotating Room site to see what options are available to you near your site location. You may also wish to check the main UCLA Community Housing Office website or the Daily Bruin . Be sure to verify the authenticity of housing before exchanging any money. Payments and Fees On the same day, you accept your offer in VSLO, you must submit a non-refundable payment of $300/elective electronically. Please follow the link directly in your VSLO offer or access the Payment Options page. The processing fee is non-refundable. Submit one payment per elective: If you are applying for more than one elective (up to a maximum of 3), you must pay separately for each elective Each elective offer/acceptance should have its own Payment Confirmation Number DO NOT CLOSE YOUR WEB BROWSER until the Payment Confirmation Number appears on the screen. If you have questions about payments, please email DGSOMelectives@mednet.ucla.edu Housing Although the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA does not provide housing, we encourage you to check out the Rotating Room site to see what options are available to you near your site location. You may also wish to check the main UCLA Community Housing Office website or the Daily Bruin . Geffen Hall 885 Tiverton Drive Los Angeles, CA 90095 Facebook X-Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube LEARN AND TRAIN MD Students Residents and Fellows PHD Students Postdoctoral Scholars Continuing Education GET INVOLVED Give To DGSOM Work For UCLA Health Volunteer for UCLA Health CONNECT WITH US UCLA Directory Maps And Directions Alumni Affinity Group Contact Our Media Team Emergency Facebook X-Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube Emergency Accessibility UCLA Privacy Policy UCLA Health Privacy Notice Login &copy; 2026 UCLA Health