Observer Program | Baptist Health South Florida Skip to main content Back to Baptist Health Back to Baptist Health Research & Library Services Continuing Medical Education Baptist Health Baptist Health Academics Menu Update Your Preferred Location Select your preferred location for care to help us show doctors and facilities that are conveniently located near you. ZIP Code Use precise location Precise location unavailable, please enable location in your browser settings or enter a Zip Code manually Remember my location Update Location Back Close Search Residencies & Fellowships Open Drawer Residencies & Fellowships Allied Health Medical Nursing and APP Pharmacy Spiritual Care Student & Visitor Programs Open Drawer Student & Visitor Programs Bethesda College of Health Sciences High School Educator Opportunities High School Student Opportunities Job Shadowing & Externships Student Rotations for School Credit Scholarships and Student Incentives Certificate Programs Open Drawer Certificate Programs Life Support Spiritual Care Nursing Pharmacy Continuing Education Baptist Health Education Center Why Choose Baptist Health? Open Drawer Why Choose Baptist Health? Academic Partners Center Leadership Connection Stories Funding Our Future Life in South Florida Research & Library Services Research & Library Services Continuing Medical Education Close Main Menu Baptist Health Academics Student & Visitor Programs Job Shadowing & Externships Observer Program Observer Program Shadowing opportunity for students and professionals to observe Baptist Health clinicians engaging in patient care. Baptist Health offers aspiring and current professionals a chance to gain invaluable, hands-off experience by shadowing our dedicated physicians and staff as they provide patient care. Designed for individuals looking to explore a career in medicine or deepen their understanding of a specific specialty, our program allows you to observe firsthand the daily operations of a leading healthcare system. The duration of the observership is at the discretion of the sponsoring clinician and can last between 1 day and up to 4 weeks. It is open all year to anyone over the age of 16 who meets the criteria listed below. If you are a visiting physician, click here . An observership is a voluntary experience that does not constitute employment, compensation, medical education or any training leading to academic credit, licensure or board certification. Baptist Health will not issue grades or written evaluations for this program. For information on student rotations for academic credit, click here . To complete an Observership at Baptist Health, please follow the steps outlined below. Step 1 Find a Sponsor Before completing the online application, observers must have confirmed a sponsor, such as a Baptist Health employee or medical staff member, including physicians. If you are not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, please complete the International Eligibility Form , and follow the steps outlined on the document, prior to beginning the Observer Program application process. Visit baptisthealth.net and in the search bar, enter the name of the department, specialty, or provider you are interested in observing to obtain their contact information. For physicians, use Find a Doctor . While many Baptist Health providers enjoy teaching interested individuals about medicine, there is no guarantee or obligation for providers to take on observers. Please be polite and give the potential sponsor plenty of time to set up the observership, as well as the right to refuse. Once the sponsoring clinician has accepted your observership, they are required to sign the Sponsor Approval Form*. Step 2 Collect Required Documents The following documents are required as part of the application process. Please be sure to download and complete any required forms before proceeding to fill out the application: Sponsor Approval Form * Sponsor Signature(s) Required. Baptist Health Supplemental Health Form (Vaccinations, Flu and TB Verifications) Clinician Signatures Required. Health insurance Government-issued Photo ID Proof of current or upcoming enrollment with student name (Class schedule or unofficial transcripts) Confirmation of Successful Level 1 Background Check OR a clearance letter from a police department from your county of residence, either within 1 year (Only for 18+ Applicants) INTERNATIONAL APPLICANTS (Non-US citizens/Residents): Applicants are required to complete the International Eligibility Form and submit it to the International Department. Applicants must receive approval from the International Department prior to submitting the Observer application Step 3 Submit Application The electronic application can be found below . Applicants will be prompted to upload the above documents as part of the process. Applications are required to be submitted a minimum of 15 business days prior to the intended start date. This gives our office the opportunity to review and process your documents in a timely manner, particularly if we need the applicant to provide updated or missing documentation. Step 4 Pay the Administrative Fee A non-refundable administrative fee must be paid to Baptist Health upon acceptance of your application. A link for electronic payment will be emailed from Observer@baptisthealth.net based on the following: High School Students: Waived with proof of enrollment Undergraduate or Graduate Students and Residents: $150 All other applicants: $450 Additional fees may be collected at the discretion of the receiving department that the observership experience will take place. Step 5 Receive Clearance Once your application is approved by our office, you will receive a clearance email from AcademicClearance@BaptistHealth.net confirming your Observer experience. If an administrative fee is due as part of your application process, you will receive clearance within 3 business days of making your payment. Program Administrator Baptist Health Office of Academic Affairs 786-467-2633 Observer@BaptistHealth.net Eligibility Requirements and Application Schedule Our program attracts, educates, and retains exceptional healthcare talent to serve the South Florida community. Program participants will be trained in the Baptist Health Way with a focus on quality, inclusion, compassion, and collaboration. Eligibility Prerequisites Participants must be aged 16 or older as of the start of the program Application Requirements Complete program application Baptist Health Supplemental Health Form (vaccinations, Flu and Tb verifications) Sponsor Approval Form Health insurance Government-issued photo ID Proof of current enrollment with student name (Class schedule or unofficial transcripts) Confirmation of Successful Background Check within 1 year (Only for 18+ Applicants) or Non-US Citizen/Resident: Letter of support from sponsor, academic institution, or employer. International Applicants International Eligibility form (Non-US Citizens/Non-US Residents) Letter of support and good standing from current academic institution or employer (Non-US Citizens/Non-US Residents) Acceptance and admission to the program is contingent on submission of all requested materials and meeting all eligibility requirements as determined by the program. Application Timeline Where do applicants go to apply? Please download and complete any required forms before filling out application Application When are applications accepted? All year When are candidates matched/notified of acceptance? Within 2 weeks of receiving a completed application When does the program start? All year Application Forms Please download and complete any required forms* below before proceeding to the online program application . *Required Forms Supplemental Health Form Sponsor Approval Form International Eligibility Form References & Guides Observer Handbook Life in South Florida Sunny days, warm people, and multicultural community - these await you when you join us at Baptist Health South Florida. Explore the Area Together we're unstoppable. As a mission driven, not for profit organization, philanthropy makes the difference between what we CAN do and what we MUST do to impact the lives of patients. Donate Today Baptist Health Facebook X Youtube Instagram Linkedin TikTok Residencies & Fellowships Allied Health Business Medical Nursing and APP Pharmacy Spiritual Care Student & Visitor Programs Bethesda College of Health Sciences High School Educator Opportunities High School Student Opportunities Job Shadowing & Externships Scholarships and Student Incentives Student Rotations for School Credit Certificate Programs Life Support Nursing Pharmacy Spiritual Care Why Choose Baptist? Academic Partners Education Center Funding Our Future Life in South Florida Download the PineApp Today Download on the App Store Get it on Google Play Copyright © 2026 Baptist Health. All Rights Reserved. HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Accessibility Statement | Notice of Non-Discrimination | Sitemap Language Preference / Preferencia de idioma I want to see the site in English Continue In English Quiero ver el sitio en Español Continuar en español I want to save my language preference for the future We use cookies to give you the best possible experience. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our use of cookies. Please review our Privacy Policy to learn more. Accept Want to finish this later? If you’d like to complete this appointment request form later, we can save your responses for 48 hours so you can come back and finish your submission. Prefer to talk to a member of our team? We’re here to help. Call 786-596-2000 . Email me a reminder Email Address Save Responses Close