School of Medicine | Emory School of Medicine Skip to main content About Toggle Menu Toggle Our Vision Academic Departments Our Leadership Health Care Partnerships Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Location Supporting Our People Our Faculty History News Events Contact Us Education Toggle Menu Toggle Degree Programs Academic Departments Residents & Fellows Postdoctoral Training Continuing Medical Education Admissions Cost and Financial Aid Student Resources Research Toggle Menu Toggle Research Innovation Conducting Research Core Facilities Research Centers Research Training Academic Departments Find a Researcher Research News Clinical Experience Toggle Menu Toggle Where We Work Caring for a Diverse Population Faculty Clinical Experience Advanced Patient Care Academic Departments Community Learning Giving Directory Search Search Close Search Search Search Menu Search Search Search Emory University School of Medicine About Toggle Menu Toggle open Toggle close Sub link Our Vision and Mission Sub link Facts and Figures Sub link Leadership Sub link Emory's Health Ecosystem Sub link Location Sub link Supporting Our People Sub link Our Faculty Sub link History Sub link News Sub link Events Sub link Accreditation Sub link Contact Us Education Toggle Menu Toggle open Toggle close Sub link Educational Programs Sub link Admissions Sub link Cost and Financial Aid Sub link Resources Sub link Residencies and Fellowships Sub link Office of Postdoctoral Education Sub link Career & Specialty Advising Sub link Simulation Program Sub link Medical Scientist Training Program (MD/PhD) Sub link OMESA: Medical Education Sub link Center for Holistic Student Success Sub link Center for Humanizing Innovations in Medical Education Clinical Experience Toggle Menu Toggle open Toggle close Sub link Where We Work Sub link Faculty Clinical Experience Sub link Community Learning Sub link Advanced Patient Care Sub link Global Health & Equity Office Research Toggle Menu Toggle open Toggle close Sub link Research Innovation Sub link Conducting Research Sub link Research Centers Sub link Training Sub link Academic Departments Sub link Core Facilities Giving Directory Search Search Search Close Close Menu In the Service of Humanity At the Emory School of Medicine, we're challenging the conventions of traditional care and reshaping how medicine is practiced About Us Education Find a Program We are continually extending our program into areas beyond the bounds of traditional medical education, for the benefit of students and society. Degree Programs Postdoctoral Training Residencies and Fellowships Continuing Medical Education Four Emory researchers elected to Association of American Physicians The Association of American Physicians recently elected four Emory researchers to its membership: Allan Levey, K. M. Venkat Narayan, Guido Silvestri and Jindan Yu. They were selected for their visionary advancements in basic or translational biomedical research and join 2,700 active members across the United States, Canada and the world. School of Medicine News More Stories Emory University schools hold Class of 2026 diploma ceremonies May. 14, 2026 The nine schools of Emory University held diploma ceremonies for their Class of 2026 graduates in conjunction with the university’s 181st Commencement. Read about their programs and watch the livestreams of all events. Celebrating Emory School of Medicine’s Class of 2026 May. 14, 2026 The Emory School of Medicine honored graduates across medicine, physical therapy, genetic counseling and medical imaging. Explore the start of their journeys as health care leaders, including this year's student and faculty award winners. Emory students to conduct biology, chemistry research as Beckman Scholars May. 13, 2026 Andrew Conlon and Hlina Temesgen will begin 15 months of intensive research this summer as Beckman Scholars. The program supports high-achieving undergraduates, providing funding to work with research mentors. Events Calendar Loading Events...