Medical Education - Observer Programs | UT MD Anderson Skip to Content My Chart Log in to our secure, personalized website to manage your care (formerly myMDAnderson). Request an Appointment Request an Appointment If you are ready to make an appointment, select a button on the right. If you have questions about UT MD Anderson’s appointment process, our information page may be the best place to start. Appointment Information New Patients Current Patients Referring Physicians Donate Today Search Close Menu Close Clinical Trials Locations Careers Contact Us Our Doctors Languages Español عربى 中文 Türkçe Search Clear Go close Search UT MD Anderson Clear Go My Chart Donate Today Clinical Trials Locations Careers Contact Us Languages Español عربى 中文 Türkçe Request an Appointment Request an Appointment New Patients Current Patients Referring Physicians Patients & Family Becoming Our Patient Becoming Our Patient Becoming Our Patient Home Why UT MD Anderson Planning for Care Getting to UT MD Anderson While You're Here International Center Services and Amenities Insurance & Billing Second Opinion Appointments Diagnosis & Treatment Diagnosis & Treatment Diagnosis & Treatment Home Cancer Types A New Diagnosis Treatment Options Care Centers & Clinics Emotional & Physical Effects Patient Support Clinical Trials Supporting a Loved One Supporting a Loved One Supporting a Loved One Home Caregiver Roles & Challenges Children and Teens Taking Care of Yourself Helping a UT MD Anderson Patient Dealing with Loss Life After Cancer Life After Cancer Life After Cancer Home Follow-up Care After Cancer Treatment Long-Term Effects of Cancer Social & Emotional Impacts of Cancer Legal & Financial Impacts of Cancer Survivorship Week Request an Appointment Current Patients Find information and resources for current and returning patients. Clinical Trials Learn about clinical trials at UT MD Anderson and search our database for open studies. Prevention & Screening Manage Your Risk Manage Your Risk Manage Your Risk Home Tobacco Control Diet Body Weight Physical Activity Skin Safety HPV Hepatitis Alcohol Family History Family History Family History Home Genetic Testing Hereditary Cancer Syndromes Genetic Counseling and Testing FAQs Cancer Screenings Cancer Screenings Cancer Screenings Home Mammograms & Breast Cancer Screening Cervical Cancer Screening Colorectal Cancer Screening Endometrial Cancer Screening Liver Cancer Screening Lung Cancer Screening Mobile Mammography Ovarian Cancer Screening Prostate Cancer Screening Skin Cancer Screening Women's Cancer Screening Men's Cancer Screening Cancer Prevention Center The Lyda Hill Cancer Prevention Center provides cancer risk assessment, screening and diagnostic services. Donors & Volunteers Donate Donate Donate Home Raise Money Honor Loved Ones Create Your Legacy Endowments Caring Fund Matching Gifts Foundation and Corporation Relations Volunteer Volunteer Volunteer Home Why Volunteer On-Site Volunteers Volunteer Endowment Patient Experience Teen Volunteer Leadership Program Children's Cancer Hospital Councils Other Ways to Help Other Ways to Help Other Ways to Help Home Give Blood Shop UT MD Anderson Children's Art Project Donate Goods or Services Attend Events Cord Blood Bank Corporate Alliances Corporate Alliances Corporate Alliances Home Current Alliances Join the Campaign to End Cancer Help us celebrate and fuel the groundbreaking innovations and transformative advancements that define UT MD Anderson. For Physicians Refer a Patient Refer a Patient Refer a Patient Home Health Care Provider Resource Center Referring Provider Team Insurance Information International Referrals myMDAnderson for Physicians Second Opinion Pathology Clinical Trials Clinical Trials Clinical Trials Home Clinical Tools & Resources Clinical Tools & Resources Clinical Tools & Resources Home Clinical Calculators Clinical Practice Algorithms myMDAnderson for Physicians Our personalized portal helps you refer your patients and communicate with their UT MD Anderson care team. Research Departments, Labs and Institutes Departments, Labs and Institutes Departments, Labs and Institutes Home Departments and Divisions Labs Research Centers and Programs Institutes Specialized Programs of Research Excellence (SPORE) Grants Research Areas Research Areas Research Areas Home Basic Science Translational Research Clinical Research Prevention & Personalized Risk Assessment Research Resources Research Resources Research Resources Home Excellence in Science Core Facilities and Services Conferences & Seminars Why Research at UT MD Anderson STRIDE NCI-Designated Cancer Center Clinical Trials As part of our mission to eliminate cancer, UT MD Anderson researchers conduct hundreds of clinical trials to test new treatments for both common and rare cancers. Education & Training Degree-Granting Schools Degree-Granting Schools Degree-Granting Schools Home School of Health Professions MD Anderson UTHealth Houston Graduate School Research Training Research Training Research Training Home Early Career Pathway Programs Predoctoral Training Postdoctoral Training Mentored Faculty Programs Career Development Clinical Training Clinical Training Clinical Training Home Graduate Medical Education Clinical Education for Non-Physicians Nursing Education & Training Continuing Education & Review Courses Simulation Center Continuing Education & Professional Development Continuing Education & Professional Development Continuing Education & Professional Development Home Continuing Professional Education/Conferences Administrative Internships & Fellowships Cancer Survivorship Professional Education Leadership Institute Patient Home Visits Education Resources Education Resources Education Resources Home Alumni Relations Education Design Services Awards & Recognitions Academic Mentoring Council Why UT MD Anderson & Houston Outreach Programs Outreach Programs Outreach Programs Home Project ECHO Observer Programs Comparative Effectiveness Training (CERTaIN) Faculty Speakers Bureau Apply to SHP Choose from 12 allied health programs at School of Health Professions. Research Trainees View open postdoctoral and other research trainee positions. GME Fellowships Learn about our graduate medical education residency and fellowship opportunities. Outreach Programs Observer Programs Top Jump To: Back Observer Programs Observer Opportunities in Anesthesiology, Critical Care and Pain Medicine Observer Opportunities in Cancer Medicine Observer Opportunities in Cancer Prevention and Population Sciences Observer Opportunities in Diagnostic Imaging Observer Opportunities in Discovery Science Observer Opportunities in Internal Medicine Observer Opportunities in Nursing Observer Opportunities in Pathology/Laboratory Medicine Observer Opportunities in Pediatrics Observer Opportunities in Radiation Oncology Observer Opportunities in Surgery Other Observership Opportunities at MD Anderson | Close Share this article Via social media: Or copy the link: Copy to clipboard Copy Observer Programs UT MD Anderson’s Observer Programs are designed to offer clinicians, researchers, and other health care professionals observational experiences to enhance their learning and exposure to oncology research or related clinical specialties. Observerships are unpaid, hands-in-pocket educational experiences, and participants are not permitted to partake in any direct patient care, research, clinical, or business activities. The Observer appointment is not intended for job shadowing experiences, career placement, or accepting GME residents, fellows, or medical students for elective credit. Appointment Types UT MD Anderson offers two types of observerships: short term education program (STEP Visitor) appointments that cannot exceed five consecutive days in length, and longer observer appointments that can last up to 90 days. Each appointment type has unique requirements, which are detailed below. Observer Appointment Requirements Program Overview Observer appointments may vary from six days up to 90 days, depending on the goals and objectives of the trainee and the resources of the department. The duration of the observation period is limited to no more than 90 consecutive days, per calendar year. Applicant Type Professional, Trainee, Student Appointment Duration 6 - 90 days Institutional Mandatory Training Required Immunization Compliance Required Background Check Required Trainee activities at this institution are governed by The University of Texas System Rules and Regulations, including the institutional Intellectual Property Policy. Observers are expected to maintain the confidentiality of university proprietary information, and to obtain approval from their faculty sponsor chair/mentor/program director prior to disclosing or publishing any results of their activities at UT MD Anderson. Eligibility Criteria Applicants must meet the following eligibly criteria to be considered for an Observership at UT MD Anderson . Must be at least 18 years of age. Employed, hold a current appointment or enrolled at an academic or health care institution. Granted approval by their home institution for the visit. The home institution must support the visit in writing, outlining the specifics as well as expected outcomes and benefits of the experience. Meet the English Proficiency requirement. Must be able to secure the appropriate visa for an observer appointment, if applicable. UT MD Anderson does not sponsor visas for Observers. Must be financially self-sufficient for the entire duration of their appointment. The Observer appointment is an unpaid position, therefore transportation, housing , health insurance and living expenses are the responsibility of the observer. Required Documents CV/Resume/Biosketch Letter of Support from a home institution official Transcripts that confirms enrollment is required for student applicants Evidence of English Proficiency, if English is not the applicant’s first language All documents not originally written in English must be translated by a certified translation agency at the applicant’s expense Additional requirements may vary with each departmental observer program Fees Professionals: $2,000 Trainees: No Fee Students: No Fee A fee of $2,000 will only be charged to professional applicants who have been conditionally accepted to an Observer program. A $500 non-refundable/non transferable deposit must be received before the application is submitted for processing. The remaining $1500 is due after the official offer is received and before the program start date Payment of the administrative fee is accepted by credit card in the Slate payment system. Cash or check payments are not accepted. No fees are assessed for trainees or students accepted to an Observer program. The hosting program may also assess additional fees. Cancellation and Refund Policy Once an appointment has been confirmed, the professional candidate is expected to complete the observership. If a cancellation is unavoidable, notice should be submitted in writing before the confirmed start date to RTP-EAS@mdanderson.org . The $500 deposit is non-refundable and non-transferable. How to apply Applicants must secure approval of a faculty sponsor or educator to host their visit and apply to an open program listed on the UT MD Anderson Observer site. Each Observer program will review submitted applications and conditionally accept requests based on available resources and the nature of the visit. Upon receiving conditional acceptance, applicants will receive specific instructions regarding any additional appointment contingencies, and if applicable, directions to pay an initial $500 non-refundable deposit before the application is forwarded to Research Trainee Programs(RTP) for processing. After review and final RTP approval, an official appointment letter will be issued, and the candidate will be directed to accept the offer, complete the appropriate onboarding contingencies and pay the remaining $1500 fee balance prior to the program start date. Please Note: Submitting an application is not a guarantee of an observership. The application approval process requires a minimum of four weeks. Please plan your start date with your program host accordingly. Travel arrangements should not be made until an official Observer appointment letter is received from Research Trainee Programs. If you have questions about the application process, please email us at RTP-EAS@mdanderson.org . For questions related eligibility, requirements or details on the observational experience of a specific program, please direct your inquires to the Observer program contact person. Observer Appointment FAQs Who is eligible to apply for an Observer appointment? Professionals: (e.g. faculty, physicians, researchers, staff) Individuals currently employed or appointed at a healthcare or academic institution. Trainees: Individuals (e.g., resident, fellow) who are currently appointed to an ACGME, or other clinical accredited educational training program may qualify for an Observer. Students: Individuals (e.g., CHEP students, undergraduate, or medical students) enrolled in a formal program leading to a diploma, degree, or certificate of completion. Does UT MD Anderson sponsor visas for Observers? UT MD Anderson does not sponsor visas for Observers. It is the responsibility of the applicant to obtain the visa appropriate for an observational experience. The visa documents must be also presented to the VISA department upon arrival to receive clearance to start the program. If eligible based on the criteria for an UT MD Anderson observer experience, how do I apply? Contact the department(s) or faculty sponsor of choice to determine space availability or apply directly to program from the Observer website. Who can I contact if I am having trouble with the online application or uploading documents? Discover_Support@mdanderson.org Can an Observer transfer to another department once they arrive and started their appointment? Transfers from one program or department to another is not permitted. Observers are restricted to the program identified and approved in their application. What is the term limit of the Observer appointment? Observers are limited to a maximum of 90 consecutive days per calendar year. Observers may be eligible to reapply 12 months after their appointment ends. Can an Observer change to a trainee title? No. Observers are not permitted to change to a trainee titles during an active appointment nor upon completion. Observers may be eligible to apply for a trainee position 6 months after their appointment ends. Can Observers receive a certificate of completion? The Observer experience is not for credit; therefore, certificates and letters of recommendation cannot be issued. Observers can request a verification of their appointment as an Observer by completing and submitting a verification request form and submitting to RTP-EAS@mdanderson.org . How many physicians, faculty or educator is an Observers allowed to shadow? Observers may only shadow one physician, faculty or educator at a time. Are medical students eligible for an observer appointment? Medical students may apply for the observer appointment. Are international medical students eligible to apply for an observer position? International medical students may apply for the observer appointment. May an Observer experience be used to fulfill a ‘rotation’ or ‘clerkship’? Student or trainees seeking elective credit do not qualify for the Observer position but may qualify to participate in an approved Anderson’s UGME or GME rotations. What are the vaccine requirements for approved observers? Observers are required to provide proof of immunity to Varicella (Chickenpox) and a tuberculosis (TB) screening that was completed within the last 6 months. STEP Visitor Appointment Requirements Program Overview STEP Visitor appointments may vary from one (1) day up to five (5)days, depending on the goals and objectives of the trainee and the resources of the department. The duration of the observation period is limited to no more than 5 consecutive days, every 6 months. Applicant Type Professional, Trainee, Student Appointment Duration 1-5 days Application Submit Deadline 15 business days prior to start Immunization Compliance Required Background Check Required Trainee activities at this institution are governed by The University of Texas System Rules and Regulations, including the institutional Intellectual Property Policy. Observers are expected to maintain the confidentiality of university proprietary information, and to obtain approval from their faculty sponsor chair/mentor/program director prior to disclosing or publishing any results of their activities at UT MD Anderson. Eligibility Criteria Must be at least 18 years of age. Employed, enrolled, or hold a current appointment at an academic or healthcare institution. Must be able to secure the appropriate visa for the STEP Visitor appointment, if applicable. Required documents. STEP Application CV/Resume/Biosketch Letter of good standing from an institutional official at the home institution Proof of enrollment in a degree program is required for student applicants Fees Professional: $500 deposit Trainee: No fee Student: No fee Payment of the administrative fee is accepted by credit card in the Slate payment system. Cash or check payments are not accepted. How to Apply Applicants interested in a STEP Visitor opportunity must identify a specific faculty mentor to sponsor their visit. A request for placement does not guarantee that a slot will be available. Candidates must undergo an interview before a final offer is extended. STEP Visitor FAQs What is a STEP Visitor? A STEP Visitor is an individual who is approved to an uncompensated “hands-in pocket” educational experience that lasts 1-5 consecutive days. The STEP Visitor appointment is not intended for career placement, nor for GME (Graduate Medical Education) residents, fellows, or medical students to obtain elective credit. What if someone wants to come for longer than 5 days? Hands-in-pocket educational experiences for longer than 5 days are called Observerships. They last between 6-90 days and have different processes for onboarding. Details on Observers can be found here . What are the eligibility criteria to be considered for a STEP Visitor appointment? Must be at least 18 years of age. Employed, enrolled, or hold a current appointment at an academic or healthcare institution. Must be able to secure the appropriate visa for the STEP Visitor appointment, if applicable. Who is eligible for the STEP Visitor appointment? Professionals: Individuals currently employed or appointed at a healthcare or academic institution. Trainees: Individuals (e.g., resident, fellow) who are currently appointed to an ACGME (Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education) or other clinical accredited educational training program, in the US or abroad. Students: Individuals (e.g., CHEP (Clinical Health Education Program) students, medical students) enrolled in a formal program leading to a diploma, degree, or certificate of completion. How do individuals apply for a STEP Visitor appointment? Applicants interested in applying for a STEP Visitor appointment must first identify a faculty mentor to sponsor their visit. The hosting department will initiate the appointment process in the Slate system for final candidates What documents are required to apply for a STEP Visitor position? STEP-Visitor Application CV/Resume/Biosketch Letter of good standing if employed or appointed to a clinical fellowship or residency or other accredited trainee program. Proof of enrollment is required for student applicants. Is there an application fee to apply for a STEP Visitor? Professionals will be charged a one-time fee of $500. Fees will not be charged to student or trainee applicants. What onboarding contingencies are required for STEP Visitors? Background Check Immunization Compliance Can a STEP Visitor transfer to another department once they arrive and start their appointment? Transfers from one program or department to another are not permitted. STEP Visitors are restricted to the program identified and approved in their application. Can STEP Visitors receive a certificate of completion? The STEP Visitor experience is not for credit; therefore, certificates and letters of recommendation cannot be issued. STEP Visitors can request a verification of their appointment as a STEP Visitor by completing and submitting a verification request form and submitting it to RTP-EAS@mdanderson.org. What are the vaccine requirements for approved STEP Visitors? STEP Visitors are required to provide proof of immunity to Varicella (Chickenpox) and a tuberculosis (TB) screening that was completed within the last 6 months. Our Labs Learn more about our faculty and research taking place in our labs. Find a lab Conferences View conferences available for continuing education credit. Learn more Subscribe Get the latest information on our cancer breakthroughs. Sign up Subscribe to our Cancerwise newsletter Explore Patients & Family Prevention & Screening Donors & Volunteers For Physicians Research Education & Training Clinical Trials Languages About About UT MD Anderson Careers Blog Newsroom For Employees Merchandise Title IX Reporting (Sexual Misconduct) Price Transparency Finding Your Way Our Doctors Locations Directions Sitemap DIGITAL ACCESSIBILITY Accessibility Policy GET IN TOUCH Call 1-877-632-6789 Ask a question Stay Connected Cancerwise Podcast More Website Privacy Policy Legal Statement & Policies Reports to the State Emergency Alert Information State of Texas Links Our Cancer Network Vendors & Suppliers The mission of The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center is to eliminate cancer in Texas, the nation, and the world through outstanding programs that integrate patient care, research and prevention, and through education for undergraduate and graduate students, trainees, professionals, employees and the public. © 2026 The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. All rights reserved.