International Visiting Medical Students | International Medical Education Jump to navigation Jump to content Explore UAB MyUAB BlazerNet Canvas Email Future Students Visit UAB opens a new website Apply to UAB opens a new website Request Info opens a new website Undergraduate Students Advising opens a new website Undergraduate Catalog opens a new website Request Info opens a new website Research and Service Learning opens a new website Graduate Students Graduate School opens a new website Graduate Catalog opens a new website Online Degrees opens a new website Parents & Family Services opens a new website Resources opens a new website Family Visits opens a new website Alumni Get Involved opens a new website Benefits opens a new website Events opens a new website Faculty & Staff Office of Provost opens a new website Human Resources opens a new website Faculty Resources opens a new website Staff Council opens a new website Researchers Office of Research opens a new website Harbert Institute opens a new website CCTS opens a new website Patients UAB Medicine opens a new website UAB Dentistry opens a new website UAB Optometry opens a new website Athletics Campus Map Give Calendar News Contact Us Colleges & Schools Arts & Sciences Collat School of Business Dentistry Education Engineering Graduate School Health Professions Honors College Medicine Nursing Optometry Public Health Explore UAB International Medical Education Heersink School of Medicine Search This Site All Sites Search Search UAB Students International Programs About Contact International Medical Education Close UAB Students International Programs About Contact International Programs International Visiting Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions COVID-19 Diaries from International Medical Students International Visiting Medical Observers International Visiting Scholars Less More in this section International Programs International Visiting Medical Students Frequently Asked Questions COVID-19 Diaries from International Medical Students International Visiting Medical Observers International Visiting Scholars International Medical Education Home International Programs International Visiting Medical Students International Programs International Visiting Medical Students International Visiting Medical Students Purpose International Visiting Medical Students (IVMS) was created with a goal to strengthen and further the mission of the UAB Heersink School of Medicine by connecting international students with our globally recognized and nationally ranked faculty. Our program aims to help international students develop their skills in diagnostic and treatment knowledge; medical history taking; and physical examinations, as well as foster the development of positive professional attitudes. Upon completion of this program, visiting students will receive: Letter of completion An education of the current U.S. medical system as it is conducted at UAB An enhanced education experience, and diagnostic and treatment expertise Improved proficiency in English Career coaching and advisement Apply Now Eligibility You must be in the final year of training at your home school or you must have completed one year of core clerkship rotations. You must be actively enrolled in a program leading to the equivalent of an MD or DO. (Graduates are not eligible for this program.) You must have the approval of the administration of your home school to attend courses at UAB. You must provide a copy of your current transcript written in English or accompanied by an English translation. The maximum length of participation is eight (8) weeks. You must take one of the following TOEFL Tests passing with the following minimum scores: iBT (internet-based) score of 100 with a minimum of 22 on the speaking section Paper-based test score of 600 TOEFL is waived only if English is your first language, or if your medical school teaches all classes and rotations in English. A document from your medical school administration must be uploaded stating English is the first language used. Good command of the English language will also be determined during the virtual online interview. We will only accept TOEFL scores that have been taken within a two (2) year period from the date that the application was submitted. Course Catalogue Please review our catalogue for available electives before submitting your application. Application Only completed applications will be reviewed. Please ensure you have the following required documents prepared. All documents except photo must be sent as a PDF: Curriculum vitae/resume Copy of your current official transcript Statement of Approval from Dean of Students Photo (only jpgs less than 250KB) Copy of the biographical information page of your passport Personal Statement Health Compliance Documentation (Student Health Form Acknowledging that you must receive medical clearance prior to training. More details/instructions about how to upload documentation will be sent in pre-matriculation email sent 8 weeks prior to start date.) TOEFL score of 100 with a minimum of 22 on the speaking section or waiver documentation. Elective preferences for 1 or 2 rotations based on availability in catalogue You will need to submit your preferences to finalize your application. All applications are reviewed by the committee to evaluate competitiveness. Only the most competitive applications will be scheduled for a virtual online interview. All applicants will receive either an acceptance or denial email. The decision by the committee is not reversable. Payment of the non-refundable application fee does not guarantee acceptance in the program. Selection for interview does not guarantee acceptance into the program. All communication is by direct email. Please be sure to include the correct email address. Apply Now Policies and Procedures The same rules and regulations that apply to University of Alabama at Birmingham students apply to international visiting medical students. Your registration and continued participation in the program is contingent upon compliant behavior and academic performance. If your behavior or performance is substandard, you may be withdrawn from the program and required to return to your originating country. A refund will not be given to you if you have been administratively withdrawn due to substandard performance or behavior unbecoming of a physician. Only completed applications will be reviewed. All applications are reviewed by the committee to evaluate competitiveness. Only competitive applications will be scheduled for a virtual interview. All remaining applications will be notified of a decision of complete denial. The decision by the committee is not reversable. All communication is by direct email. Please be sure to include the correct email address. No credit is received from UAB Heersink School of Medicine for clinical electives. Changes to your assigned elective, after paying the course fees, will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis based on elective availability and administrative fees applies. UAB International Medical Education follows the advice of the U.S. Department of State and Foreign Affairs Manual followed by the U.S. consulates and embassies (FAM) in recommending that students participating in the IVMS Program enter the United States on a B-1/B-2 Visa with passport stamp for B-1 (Business) per the U.S. Department of State and Foreign Affairs Manual - section - 9 FAM 402.2-5(E) (4) (U). The IVMS program has a strict policy for arriving and departing. Arrival is the Sunday before electives and departure is the Saturday at the end of the elective, before 11am. If you are leaving after Saturday at 11am, you will have to make and pay for your own local hotel arrangements. IVMS Cancellation Policy All cancellations must be received in writing by email to ivms@uab.edu . For cancellation of your elective more than 90 calendar days before the start date of the elective, only half of your course elective fee will be refunded, minus any administrative or financial processing fees. For cancellation of your elective fewer than 90 calendar days before the start date of the elective, there will be no refund given ($0 - U.S.). If you cancel more than 90 calendar days before the start date of the elective due to Visa refusal by US Embassy and you provide proper proof of registration and proof of refusal, there will be a full refund of the elective fee minus any administrative or financial processing fees. Please note: The inability to obtain a Visa appointment with the U.S. Embassy within time to receive Visa prior to elective start date does not qualify under this cancelation policy for Visa refusal . The application fee of $350 (U.S.) is non-refundable. Failure to respond to emails or complete pre-matriculation requirements at least two weeks prior to the start date will be considered a cancellation, and no refund will be given. If you choose not to participate and drop out of the program, or we are notified of non-participation on or after the elective start date, no refund will be given. If unacceptable behavior is exhibited by any student, we reserve the right to withdraw the student’s enrollment in the program with no refund given. Fees The application fee of $350* is non-refundable . Payment of a non-refundable application fee does not guarantee acceptance. Cost per 4-week non-credit elective is $5,200*. This includes tuition, housing and transport to and from the airport (excludes travel to and from the U.S.). This cost is due upon acceptance into the International Visiting Medical Student program. Payment can be made by a major credit card or wire transfer. Please note: Fees cannot be adjusted, and we do not offer scholarships. *Cost of nonrefundable application fee and elective fee subject to change without prior notice Insurance Coverage Health Insurance UAB requires all international visiting medical students to have medical health insurance. You may purchase UAB Student Health Insurance or provide your own. Non-UAB health insurance must be approved by UAB Student Health before arrival. If not approved, you will need to purchase UAB’s Health Insurance coverage before starting your course. Note: Travel Policies do not satisfy this requirement. Malpractice Insurance Every international visiting medical student is automatically covered for mal-practice insurance of $3 million per aggregate year and $1 million per instance. This coverage is provided through UAB Professional Liability Trust Fund at no charge while you are enrolled in our program. Housing Housing is included in the course fee and provided by UAB International Medical Education. Each student will have a single bedroom with a full-sized bed and private bathroom. Students will enjoy a furnished suite. Each suite has a fully-equipped kitchen with cookware, cups, dishes and eating utensils. It also has free high-speed Internet, washer / dryer and central heating and air conditioning. Housing Amenities & Features: Controlled-access entry 24-hour fitness center Resort-style swimming pool Student study room 24-hour emergency maintenance Within walking distance of the UAB Campus, restaurants, and a major grocery store. Learn more about IVMS housing. Important Note for Applicants Selections will be made on the basis of the outstanding quality and relevance of the prospective candidate and competitiveness of application. Due to the highly competitive application process, there is no guarantee that the rotation you have chosen for your elective(s) or the specific elective(s) will be available. Electives will only be guaranteed after UAB receives your elective course fee in full. Please ensure that all application materials are uploaded into the online application. Incomplete applications will not be reviewed. If you have questions, please contact IVMS@uab.edu Apply Now Nondiscrimination Statement Cookie Settings Contact UAB opens a new website Privacy opens a new website Terms of Use opens a new website Nondiscrimination Statement Site Login Administrator Login Frontend Login 2026 The University of Alabama at Birmingham 2026 The University of Alabama at Birmingham Nondiscrimination Statement UAB is an Equal Employment/Equal Educational Opportunity Institution dedicated to providing equal opportunities and equal access to all individuals regardless of race, color, religion, ethnic or national origin, sex (including pregnancy), genetic information, age, disability, religion, and veteran’s status. As required by Title IX, UAB prohibits sex discrimination in any education program or activity that it operates. Individuals may report concerns or questions to UAB’s Assistant Vice President and Senior Title IX Coordinator. The Title IX notice of nondiscrimination is located at uab.edu/titleix .