MetroHealth: Stop Searching. Start Healing. With Your Own Doctor. Skip to Content Find a Provider Find a Location Medical Services Patients & Visitors My Chart What can we help you find? Search Search within: MetroHealth Find a Provider Find a Location View Medical Services Find Care Now Login to MyChart Pay a Bill View Pharmacy Services Search Find a Provider Find a Location Medical Services Patients & Visitors Community Research Education Volunteer Donate News Careers Make an Appointment Login to MyChart Pay a Bill Make a Donation View Pharmacy Services Facebook X Social YouTube Instagram Menu Stop Searching. Start Getting Answers. Somewhere along the way, real care got harder to find. At MetroHealth, we're changing that . Get Care Now Find a Doctor Login to MyChart Pay a Bill Find a Location Pharmacy Services Convenient Access to Expert Care Primary Care Specialty Care Urgent Care Emergency Care Same-day, Weekend, and Virtual Primary Care Appointments Regular checkups and screenings are a big part of your primary care. We offer well visits to prevent health problems before they start. If your goal is health prevention, managing a chronic illness or referral for specialty care, we're here to help. In Person Care Same Day Virtual Care Scheduled Virtual Care Specialty Care Our specialists treat patients with critical illnesses, complex chronic conditions, and those requiring specialized procedures and monitoring. Specialty Care Be Seen Right Now Our services help you access urgent care for non-emergency medical needs. If you are experiencing a medical emergency, please call 9-1-1. Express Care Pediatric Walk In Virtual Urgent Care Northeast Ohio's Leading Emergency Care No matter what type of medical emergency you have, we can take care of you or your loved one. We are Cleveland's premier Level I Adult Trauma Center and Level II Pediatric Trauma Center. If you are experiencing a medical emergency, please call 9-1-1. Find Emergency Care Near You What kind of care do I need? If you're not sure where to go for medical care, start here. Learn where to get care Medical Care & Services At MetroHealth, our team is committed to comprehensive, whole-person care. From primary care to specialized treatments, we're dedicated to you and your family's well-being. See all services Cancer Care Ear, Nose & Throat Care Heart Care Obstetrics & Gynecology Pharmacy Rehabilitation Institute Weight Management Laboratory Services Join Our Be SimplyWell Community Be SimplyWell is a trusted collection of easy to understand health tips, videos, events, and newsletters created by MetroHealth providers to help you take simple steps toward feeling your best. Sign Up for Our Newsletter Health Talks Be SimplyWell Blog Stories of Hope Caring for the Caregiver Understanding how to care for yourself while supporting someone else can help you avoid burnout, stay balanced, and provide the best care possible. Ask a Pharmacist: Take Medications with Confidence Are you taking multiple medications and have questions for a pharmacist? Understanding how to properly manage your medications can help you stay on track, avoid complications, and feel more confident in your care. Trust Your Gut: How to Support Digestive and Colon Health Digestive health plays an important role in your overall well-being, from how your body absorbs nutrients to how you feel each day. Understanding how to care for your gut and colon can help support healthy digestion, reduce your risk of common gastrointestinal conditions, and keep your body functioning at its best. Love Your Heart: Simple Steps for Heart Health Heart health affects every part of your daily life, from your energy and stamina to your long-term health and independence. Understanding how to care for your heart can help reduce your risk of heart disease and support overall well-being. Understanding Bariatric Surgery: A Path to Lasting Weight Loss Managing weight can feel overwhelming, especially with the rise of medications, supplements, and other treatment options. Understanding what works is key to achieving lasting health. Your Guide to Joint Replacement: Options, Recovery, and Results Joint pain and stiffness in the hips and knees can make everyday activities like walking, climbing stairs, or even getting out of a chair challenging. When these symptoms become severe, joint replacement surgery may be an option to help restore movement and improve quality of life. Living Well with Chronic Pain: Strategies for Daily Life Chronic pain can affect every part of daily life, from sleep and mobility to mood and overall health. Learning how to manage it effectively can help you maintain independence, improve function, and enhance your quality of life. Thriving Through Menopause Menopause is a natural part of aging, but its symptoms can have a big impact on your daily life and long-term health. Hot flashes, night sweats, mood changes, and sleep disruptions are common, while the decrease in estrogen can also increase your risk of osteoporosis and heart disease. More Than Cramps: Understanding and Treating Endometriosis Endometriosis is a chronic disease associated with severe, life-impacting pain, fatigue, depression and anxiety. Tired of Shoulder Pain? Relief is in Reach The majority of adults will have shoulder pain at some time in their lives. When that pain interferes with your life, though, it&#x2019;s time to see a specialist for treatment. Boost Your Brain: Tips for a Healthier Mind Your brain is your most valuable asset &#x2014; keeping it healthy is key to living a vibrant, focused and fulfilling life. The good news? Everyday habits can make a big difference, especially as we age. I Can&#x2019;t Do It All: Setting Boundaries For Mental Wellbeing Setting healthy boundaries, tuning into your needs and communicating with confidence can make a big difference in your overall mental health. Save That Hip! Why Waiting Hurts More Than You Think No one should have to live with hip pain. Learn how to find relief from hip pain today and keep your hips healthy for the future. Why Snoring is a Warning Sign Sleep plays a key role in your health and wellbeing. Snoring is a warning sign that you or your partner might have sleep apnea, a serious medical condition that is linked to high blood pressure, heart attacks, and strokes. Cholesterol - Is It Good? Is It Bad? What You Need to Know Cholesterol plays an important role in your body. Every cell in your body needs cholesterol to function. But when you have too much, it can put you at risk for heart attack, stroke and other health problems. What You Need to Know About Weight Loss Surgery Obesity is a disease that impacts your entire body and causes other serious health conditions. Depending on your health issues and needs, bariatric surgery might be the best option for you. What Every Woman Needs To Know About Breast Cancer One in eight women will develop breast cancer at some point in their life according to the American Cancer Society, making breast cancer the most common form of non-skin cancer among women. Childhood Obesity: A Healthier Future According to the CDC, one in five children in the United States have obesity. As a chronic disease, obesity can lead to changes in the body&#x2019;s hormones and other health issues. The Aging Eye Getting older can be an eye-opener. Starting around 50 years old, our eyes go through changes that can cause conditions like dry eye, cataracts, glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, macular degeneration, and presbyopia. Put Your Best Foot Forward This Summer Since activity usually increases in the summer, so do common foot complaints like hammertoes, bunions, arthritis, plantar fasciitis, Achilles tendonitis and ankle sprains. Relieve Yourself: Understanding Incontinence While urination is a fact of life, lack of control over your bladder can cause feelings of shame and limit your daily activities. Hip and Back Pain: How Are They Connected Hip and back pain can bother most adults at some point. But when the pain becomes too much to handle, or doesn&#x2019;t go away, it&#x2019;s time to see an expert. The Importance of Colon Cancer Screenings Colon cancer is one of the deadliest and easily preventable cancers in the U.S. However, it is estimated that 50,000 people will die from colon cancer this year. Colon cancer screenings are vital to the prevention and diagnosis of colon cancer. What Your Legs Tell You About Your Heart Health Did you know your heart health is connected to the health of your arteries and veins? Peripheral Artery Disease affects more Black and Hispanic men and women than other races, but it can be a silent disease. Most often, leg pain is the first sign of a problem. Weight Loss Medication Options Weight loss medications like Ozempic, Mounjaro, Wegovy and others have dominated headlines in the past year &#x2013; and for good reason. They are proven solutions to help people who struggle with obesity get to a healthy weight. Understanding Hernias &#x2013; What You Need to Know Before Surgery A hernia is a gap in the muscular wall that allows the contents inside the abdomen to protrude outward. Most of the time, hernias require surgery to prevent serious complications. Love Your Lungs &#x2013; Risks, Screenings & Nicotine Dependence Learn about low-dose lung cancer screenings now available at MetroHealth, how you can understand your risk factors, and programs to help you kick nicotine dependence for good. Breast Cancer Screening Recommendations Learn more about breast cancer screening guidelines. Dr. Joseph will review what you need to know to make smart choices about your breast health. Move Better with Physical Therapy MetroHealth has physical therapists at locations across Cuyahoga County that can recommend exercises, massages and treatments to get you feeling your best. Get More From Your Pharmacy Services Outpatient pharmacy manager at MetroHealth Parma Medical Center, also talks about MetroHealth&#x2019;s pharmacy services. Summer Foot Care Podiatrist&#xA0;Andy N Orta, DPM&#xA0;will discuss how to care for your feet and ankles this summer and the&#xA0;services available at MetroHealth. Stroke Prevention and BE FAST Warning Signs Stroke is the leading cause of serious long-term disability in the United States. Every 40 seconds, someone has a stroke, and every 4 minutes, someone dies from one.&#xA0; Why You Need a Primary Care Provider Why you need a primary care provider to act as the quarterback of your healthcare team and how to choose the right provider for you. Women of Color and Heart Health Learn the myths about heart disease and how it affects Hispanic, Latina and Black women differently. Proven Solutions to Manage Your Weight MetroHealth&#x2019;s weight management experts can give you real solutions to help you lose weight, keep it off and improve your health.&#xA0; Mental Health and Motherhood The isolation, loss and fear we&#x2019;ve experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic has taken its toll on everyone&#x2019;s mental health. Just ask any mom who&#x2019;s experienced the weight of the pandemic on top of the everyday stresses of parenthood. Women&#x2019;s Health Issues Too Few Talk About Learn about women&#x27;s issues such as pelvic pain, fibroids, endometriosis, bladder control and others. Heart Health & Women Learn how you can take control of your heart health at this virtual health talk. A Good Night&#x2019;s Sleep is in Reach Dr. Auckley talks about treatments available at MetroHealth to help you get a good night&#x2019;s sleep &#x2013; including new treatments for sleep apnea. Take Pride in Your Health This Pride Month, learn about specialized services available at Cleveland&#x2019;s first-of-its-kind clinic for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, non-binary, transgender, queer and intersex (LGBTQI&#x2B;) community. You Can Prevent Strokes &#x2013; Learn How! A stroke can happen at any time, at any age. The good news? 80% of strokes are preventable. Focusing on Preventive Care During a Pandemic Keeping up to date on preventative screenings and wellness visits is the most important thing you can do to stay healthy. 15 Ways to Stay Active Every Day You don&rsquo;t need big changes to feel better. Small steps add up. Try these 15 simple ways to move more throughout your day. Bladder Leaks Happen in Women at Any Age Bladder leaks are linked to childbirth, menopause, weight changes or certain health conditions. There are ways to manage and improve them. Step Into Spring with Healthy Feet Find answers to your top foot care questions&mdash;from dry skin and cracked heels to broken toes. A few simple habits make a big difference. Easy Feel-Good Greens with Citrus & Pumpkin Seeds This quick side dish uses leafy greens, citrus juice, and crunchy pumpkin seeds. It tastes great and goes well with roasted chicken thighs. Cancer Care A Stem Cell Transplant Offers Hope: Keesha&rsquo;s Story &ldquo;The stem cell team has been amazing. I&rsquo;m so grateful to MetroHealth for the care I&rsquo;ve gotten.&rdquo; Pregnancy Midwifery Program Delivers: Arleen Crider&rsquo;s Story &ldquo;It was really important for me to have a nature-based pregnancy, labor and delivery.&rdquo; Weight Management Weight Loss Surgery: Jennifer&rsquo;s Journey &ldquo;My message is simple,&rdquo; she says. &ldquo;You can change your life. It&rsquo;s not easy, but it&rsquo;s worth it.&rdquo; Physical & Occupational Therapy Never Give Up: Chrissy&rsquo;s Story &ldquo;The championship had an electric feel,&rdquo; Chrissy said. &ldquo;It was pretty neat to interact with the other drivers.&rdquo; More Stories of Hope Community Health & Wellness MetroHealth is unwavering in its commitment to address health needs and disparities across Northeastern Ohio. We seek to improve the lives and health outcomes of everyone in our communities, including underserved populations. Community Explore the education, engagement and wellness programs we offer and how we're making a difference in communities. View Community Programs Foundation Support the MetroHealth Fund and help us foster hope for people of all backgrounds, neighborhoods and income levels. Make a Donation Institute for H.O.P.E. Learn how we're addressing the social drivers of health with community education and high-impact research. Read About the Institute Careers at MetroHealth Ready to change lives and make an impact everyday? Join our team of impassioned and mission-focused professionals. View Job Openings Be SimplyWell Health Talks Learn about health conditions and their treatments. MetroHealth providers discuss and answer your questions in our Be SimplyWell Health Talks series. Learn More Education & Research MetroHealth has championed its commitment to research, training, and education. Through bold research, hands-on training and a spirit of compassion, we&rsquo;re shaping a future where innovation and humanity walk hand in hand. Education MetroHealth offers various medical education and training programs, including Graduate Medical Education (GME) residencies, fellowships and student learning opportunities. Research Institute Our vision is to be the national leader in translating innovations and discoveries to improve the health and quality of life of the community, especially, vulnerable populations. Participate in a Clinical Trial Help us find cures and make new discoveries to improve the health and wellness of our communities. View Clinical Trials View Care Options Get Care at MetroHealth If you're ready to get care now or schedule an appointment, we are, too. Not sure what kind of care you need? Explore your care options here. Primary Care : 216-696-3876 Specialty Care : Contact Us Virtual Care : Get Care Now Pediatric Care : 216-778-2222 Prescriptions: 216-957-6337 Information : 216-778-7800 Find ExpressCare Locations Schedule Online with MyChart Schedule a Primary Care Appointment Request a Virtual Care Appointment Back to Top 2500 MetroHealth Drive Cleveland, OH 44109 216-778-7800 Facebook X Social YouTube Instagram For Visitors Amenities & Services Billing & Finance Insurance Information Medical Records Parking & Shuttle Options Pharmacy Services Phone Numbers Office of Patient Experience Visitation Policies For Professionals Careers Employee Portal Education Opportunities Provider Resources Refer a Patient Research & Education Education Research Institute Clinical Trials Community & Public Health Institute for H.O.P.E.&trade; Population Health Innovation Institute Rehabilitation Institute About MetroHealth About Us Accreditation & Partnerships Contact Us Donate News Be SimplyWell Blog The MetroHealth Foundation Copyright 2026 MetroHealth. All rights reserved. Language Assistance Price Transparency Privacy Terms of Use