Visiting Students | Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Skip to main content Close Search Enter a Search Term Search Rutgers Search Search this site Search all Rutgers Search People Visit Rutgers.edu Apply Now Info for: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni Patients Intranet (NetID Required) Give Now Open Search Education Admissions How to Apply Primary Accelerated Continuity Care Experience (PACCE) Other Admissions Programs Financial Aid MD Program Curriculum Academic Calendar Distinction Programs Dual Degree Programs Community & Global Health Experiences Medical Student Research Opportunities Humanism & Professionalism Programs Match Day Registrar Visiting Students Student Experience M1 Student Orientation Student Health and Wellness Student Life Graduate Medical Education Residencies & Fellowships Prospective Housestaff Visiting Residents & Fellows Continuing Education Institute for Excellence in Education The Future of Our Medical School Research Research Training Medical Student Research INSPIRE Program MD/PHD Program Resources for Researchers Our Experts & Research Areas Grants & Contracts Clinical and Translational Research Core Facilities, Services and Other Resources Regulatory & Safety Resources Departments, Institutes & Centers Patient Care Make an Appointment Find a Provider or Location Departments, Institutes & Centers Clinical Trials Eric B. Chandler Health Center Community & Global Health Community Health Programs Eric B. Chandler Health Center HIPHOP Community Interpreter Project Healthier New Brunswick South Asian Total Health Initiative The Boggs Center on Disability and Human Development Project ECHO Global Health Programs International Health Travel Medical Language Courses Global Health Elective Distinction Programs Global Health Student Groups International Global Health Observership News & Events Latest News The Weekly View Robert Wood Johnson Medicine Magazine Past Issues Upcoming Events About Leadership The Future of Our Medical School The HELIX Office of Professional Fulfillment, Engagement, and Belonging (ProBE) Open Search Open Search Open Menu Close Education Admissions How to Apply Primary Accelerated Continuity Care Experience (PACCE) Other Admissions Programs Financial Aid MD Program Curriculum Academic Calendar Distinction Programs Dual Degree Programs Community & Global Health Experiences Medical Student Research Opportunities Humanism & Professionalism Programs Match Day Registrar Visiting Students Student Experience M1 Student Orientation Student Health and Wellness Student Life Graduate Medical Education Residencies & Fellowships Prospective Housestaff Visiting Residents & Fellows Continuing Education Institute for Excellence in Education The Future of Our Medical School Research Research Training Medical Student Research INSPIRE Program MD/PHD Program Resources for Researchers Our Experts & Research Areas Grants & Contracts Clinical and Translational Research Core Facilities, Services and Other Resources Regulatory & Safety Resources Departments, Institutes & Centers Patient Care Make an Appointment Find a Provider or Location Departments, Institutes & Centers Clinical Trials Eric B. Chandler Health Center Community & Global Health Community Health Programs Eric B. Chandler Health Center HIPHOP Community Interpreter Project Healthier New Brunswick South Asian Total Health Initiative The Boggs Center on Disability and Human Development Project ECHO Global Health Programs International Health Travel Medical Language Courses Global Health Elective Distinction Programs Global Health Student Groups International Global Health Observership News & Events Latest News The Weekly View Robert Wood Johnson Medicine Magazine Past Issues Upcoming Events About Leadership The Future of Our Medical School The HELIX Office of Professional Fulfillment, Engagement, and Belonging (ProBE) Visit Rutgers.edu Apply Now Info for: Prospective Students Current Students Faculty and Staff Alumni Patients Intranet (NetID Required) Give Now Education MD Program Visiting Students Visiting Students Current Opportunities For the academic year 2026–2027, all visiting rotations are coordinated through the Association of American Medical Colleges' (AAMC) Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO). The program charges a fee for this service. Robert Wood Johnson Medical School will open and start to accept visiting applications as of February 2026. All applications will be reviewed and responded to approximately 35 days before the start date being requested. The 2026–2027 academic year and clinical calendar starts May 4, 2026. Please be aware that the following departments may not be accepting visiting students for the 2026–2027 academic year: OB/GYN . This includes all core rotations and electives within these departments. There are also a few rotations within other departments that have been closed as well. We will continue to update the VSLO catalog based on information received from the departments. Please continue to review VSLO for any electives that might have been closed since then due to limitations to our clinical capacity. Robert Wood Johnson Medical School does not provide travel, housing, or living expenses for visiting students. Students are responsible for finding housing for the duration of the visiting experience. Learn About Life at Rutgers How to Apply To apply, please review all eligibility information and requirements below and complete the VSLO application process on the AAMC website for your preferred electives and dates. Apply Through VLSO Electives Acceptance into an elective is based upon receipt of the properly completed application forms. If you wish to apply for more than one elective, please use one application form per elective. You do not need to fill out duplicates of the other forms. Use Robert Wood Johnson Medical School course numbers to identify the electives you choose. View the Elective Catalog For more information on our visiting student electives or your application status, please contact: Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Office of the Registrar 675 Hoes Lane, Room TC-111 Piscataway, New Jersey 08854-5635 Email: registrarvsas@rwjms.rutgers.edu You must follow our elective block rotation dates. In addition, no visiting student may accumulate more than 16 weeks of electives. *Two-week blocks may be available within these four-week blocks in the schedule below. 2026–2027 Elective Blocks Block 1 05/04/26 – 05/29/26 Block 2 06/01/26 – 06/26/26 Block 3 06/29/26 – 07/24/26 Block 4 07/27/26 – 08/21/26 Block 5 08/24/26 – 09/18/26 Block 6 09/21/26 – 10/16/26 Block 7 10/19/26 – 11/13/26 Block 8 11/16/26 – 12/11/26 Block 9 01/04/27 – 01/29/27 Block 10 02/01/27 – 02/26/27 Block 11 03/01/27 – 03/26/27 Block 12 03/29/27 - 04/23/27 Once an elective is offered and accepted, there is a non-refundable $75 processing fee due for each elective you have accepted. Please make the check payable to "Rutgers RWJMS" and send it to the address listed for the contact person. If payment is not received within two weeks from the date of acceptance, you could potentially be withdrawn from the elective. Eligibility and Application Requirements Eligibility All visiting students must be: Enrolled at a US Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) accredited medical school or a participating Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) accredited American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine (AACOM) member college A fourth-year student with an anticipated graduation of Spring 2025 The program is not available to medical students who: Are pre-clinical and third-year medical students Attend or have graduated from non-US medical schools Attend medical schools that are not LCME accredited by the AAMC or COCA accredited by the American Osteopathic Association Are foreign medical students on an F-1 Visa who attend US medical schools Option for Foreign Medical School Students VSLO is not currently available for international students or students enrolled at Canadian medical schools. Although we do not accept international students for our established clerkships and electives, the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School Office of Global Health offers an International Global Health Experience to students who attend our partnering institutions. These are typically four-week observership programs, supervised by our global health faculty. About the Observership Program For additional information, contact the Office of Global Health at globalhealth@rwjms.rutgers.edu . Application Requirements Application Photograph CV Transcript Surgical Asepsis Training ( https://rutgersconnect-my.sharepoint.com/:b:/g/personal/jmk438_rwjms_rutgers_edu/IQAJ98xTSiJ6R7J_cGW2ejsEAcJykyCqw9WeIkYW6kDSX84?e=2kHIJ5 ) AAMC Standardized Immunization Form and applicable supporting documentation Copy of a Background Check having been completed within one (1) year of the anticipated start date of the elective Home Institution Verification Confirmation student passed USMLE Step 1 or COMLEX-USA Level 1 Confirmation of good academic standing Confirmation of OSHA, mask fit test, and HIPAA Must be in final year of medical studies in order to participate in clinical elective program Fourth-year Student Acknowledgement Copy of Current/Valid BLS Proof of COVID vaccination Medical liability/malpractice insurance All documents must be uploaded through VSLO. Forms will not be accepted via fax or mail. Key Considerations We only review visiting students’ applications 30-35 days before the start date of the rotation. For example, if you apply in April for an August rotation, we are unable to review your application until July. Priority is given to Robert Wood Johnson Medical School students, which makes it difficult for us to provide capacity until 30 days before the start date. All approvals are subject to capacity and availability at the time of acceptance, 30 days prior to the start date. All applications must be complete when submitted. Please make sure to review all requirements below, and submit a criminal background check within 12 months of the start date. If you are applying for the EMED sub-internship, please be aware that you will need to complete a supplemental application, which can be found in VSLO. Background Check Our background check is done through CastleBranch. On the CastleBranch website , select "Place Order" and enter "RU35" as the package code. You may use other companies to complete the background check process, but the report must include the following checks: Nationwide Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Scan Nationwide Record Indicator with SOI Social Security Alert Residency History Please notify Robert Wood Johnson Medical School that you are requesting a background check through our services by completing the Criminal Background Check Notification Form and sending it with your application. Medical Care for Visiting Students All visiting students are required to be covered by health insurance in order to participate in RWJMS rotations. Visiting students are eligible to seek care through RWJMS Student Health Services. In addition, visiting students are responsible for all costs which may be incurred while on assignment at RWJMS including needle stick exposure. For expenses related to the treatment of a needle stick injury, the visiting student's health insurance will be billed and the visiting student should work directly with their home school's Dean of Student Affairs office. Site Footer Rutgers.edu Rutgers Health New Brunswick Newark Camden Academics Admissions Academic Calendar Rutgers Health Sciences Libraries Student Affairs Support Our Students Administration Office of the Dean Communications & Public Affairs Information Technology Operations & Administration Alumni Association Connect Resources Contact Us Intranet (NetID Required) myRutgers MyChart Login Resources On Demand (Room Scheduling) Maintenance Request Form (Facility Services) Follow Us Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright © , Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. All rights reserved. Contact webmaster