Observership | Health Care | Stanford Medicine Skip to Content Stanford Medicine Health Care &ndash; Tri-Valley Site Nav Menu Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Neuroscientist Michelle Monje awarded MacArthur 'genius grant' Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Community engagement Lane Library Student resources Education News Alice L. Walton School of Medicine and Stanford Medicine host AI conference on community health Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Close menu Close menu Faculty Research Research Current & past research Bringing research to SHC Tri-Valley SHC Tri-Valley Research Office members Quality Quality Quality Improvement The Cost Savings Reimbursement Program (CSRP) RITE: Realizing Improvement through Team Education Education Graduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Contact Anonymous Contact Form Policies and Benefits Resident/Fellowship Electives Physician Assistant Student Education Community outreach Visiting Students Culture and Community Observership FM Residency FM Residency Program Director&apos;s Welcome Clinical Sites Community Curriculum How to Apply Our Residents Our Team Policies and Benefits Residency Wellness Program Contact Us Patient Care Contact News SHC Tri-Valley Visiting Observer Program Stanford Tri-Valley Hospital is pleased to offer a visiting observer opportunity through our Visiting Observer Program Team. Observers must be 18 years or older and have a host to apply for this program. Steps Involved in the Visiting Observer (VO) Program Potential VOs must reach out to a member of the Tri-Valley workforce to be their Host. Important to note, the Visiting Observer Program Team does not match potential VOs and Hosts. It is the VO’s responsibility to find a Host and obtain their agreement. Once a Host has agreed to host a potential VO, they should reach out to VisitingObserver@stanfordhealthcare.org and initiate the process with the subject line "SHC Tri-Valley VO” The Visiting Observer Program Team review intake forms and provide the Host with a packet containing all paperwork necessary and detailed instructions on what steps both the Host and the potential VO must do in order for the visit to be approved. Those steps include: The Host must sign an attestation acknowledging their responsibilities and listing the dates of observation. Additionally, the Host is responsible for obtaining the signature of their Clinical Department Head. If any observation will occur in the OR/Cath Lab/ASC, the Host must obtain the signature of the Nurse Manager for the space they plan to bring the observer. The VO must do the following: i. Review our Code of Conduct and HIPAA Privacy Slides ii. Sign a VO Attestation acknowledging their responsibilities iii. Be medically cleared by Occupational Health 4. Once all of the paperwork has been completed, the Visiting Observer Program Team will approve the visit and contact HR/Security Services to issue a badge to the VO. The VO must pick up the badge in Dublin prior to the first day of observation. 5. During the observation, the Host is responsible for having each patient whom the VO would like to observe first review and sign the Patient Authorization form. Patients must give their written permission to be observed before observation occurs. If a patient does not sign the form, the VO cannot observe them. After the observation, the Host must retain a copy of the Patient Authorization form for 6 years (it is recommended that this form be uploaded to the “Media” tab of the patient’s chart in Epic). Timeline and Expectations: Hosts must submit their intake form a minimum of 3 weeks before the first proposed day of observation. VOs are limited to 30 days of observation within a twelve-month period. These days do not have to be taken consecutively. If the potential VO is a member of the Stanford workforce, there is an expedited medical clearance process. Intake form link: Hosts can always reach out to VisitingObserver@stanfordhealthcare.org to request the link to the intake form. FAQ Who can be a Visiting Observer? VOs can be any individual who is at least 18 years of age who is interested in watching patient care at Stanford Health Care Tri-Valley. Note that VOs may not participate in any patient care activities. If a prospective VO is enrolled in a class for continuing education purposes, they cannot participate in the VO program for purposes of gaining credit for that class. Who can be a Host? Hosts can be any member of the Stanford Health Care Tri-Valley workforce, whether that is a member of the staff or a physician who has privileges and practices at Stanford Health Care Tri-Valley. Please note, the Visiting Observer Program Team only processes requests for observations taking place at Tri-Valley locations. There are different points of contact for the VO programs at SHC/SMCH and LPCH For further questions please reach out to VisitingObserver@stanfordhealthcare.org Health Care Stanford Medicine News Careers Contact Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Careers Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift &copy; 2026 Stanford University Privacy Policy Terms of Use Accessibility Non-Discrimination See us on Facebook See us on X (Twitter) Non-Discrimination Stanford complies with all applicable civil rights laws and does not engage in illegal preferences or discrimination. Stanford's Non-Discrimination Policy Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Stanford Health Care Tri-Valley Stanford Medicine Partners