International Observership Program | Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Skip to main content Skip to footer Ready to start planning your care? Call us at 646-926-0945 to make an appointment. Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Sloan Kettering Institute Research Changing how the world understands and treats cancer Our scientists pursue every aspect of cancer research—from exploring the biology of genes and cells, to developing immune-based treatments, uncovering the causes of metastasis, and more. Programs & Centers Sloan Kettering Institute Pursuing basic and translational research across 9 programs and 100+ labs Memorial Hospital research Focusing on clinical cancer research and population health Human Oncology & Pathogenesis Program (HOPP) Bridging the lab and the clinic through translational research Collaborative research centers Fostering interdisciplinary collaborations between laboratory scientists and clinicians Extramural collaborations Partnering with other academic and research institutions Research at MSK Our research impact Research topics Core facilities & resources Offering state-of-the-art resources for our researchers Find a researcher or lab Education & training programs MSK Innovation MSK Commercialization Ecosystem Partnering, new ventures, and business accelerators Clinical Trial Innovation Incubating and implementing better ways to run clinical trials Our Innovation Story Showcasing key developments and achievements Education & Training Training the next generation of clinicians and scientists Our highly-specialized educational programs shape leaders to be at the forefront of cancer care and research. For Healthcare Graduate medical education (GME) Medical student opportunities Continuing medical education (CME) Continuing nursing education (CNE) Academic departments & divisions Explore all programs For Research Postdoctoral training Gerstner Sloan Kettering Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences PhD & MD/PhD programs Explore all programs Careers MSK Direct Locations & Language In the U.S. English Español Pусский Outside of the U.S. العَرَبِيَّة Deutsch English Español 한국어 עִבְרִית Italiano Portugês Pу́сский Türkçe 中文 Search What can we help you find today? Search Make an Appointment Back Make an Appointment We're here for you. Make an appointment New patient Current patient Speak to a care advisor Adults: 646-926-0946 Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Children & Teens: 646-895-6193 Available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week Becoming A Patient Why choose MSK How to become a patient Insurance & financial assistance Preparing for your first appointment Meet our doctors Explore our locations Learn About Cancer & Treatment Back Learn About Cancer & Treatment We treat every type of cancer, including the most important one: yours. With cancer, where you get treated first matters. From diagnosis to treatment, our experts provide the care and support you need, when you need it. Adults Cancers & conditions Risk assessment & screening Diagnosis & treatment Clinical trials Children & Teens Cancers & conditions Diagnosis & treatment Clinical trials Support, Services & Programs For adults For children & teens For caregivers Adolescents & young adult (AYA) program Patient & caregiver education library Cancer News & Discoveries Read the latest Sign up for our newsletter For Physicians Back For Physicians Partner with us to treat your patient&rsquo;s cancer. Refer a patient CALL OUR DEDICATED CLINICIAN ACCESS NUMBER 646-677-7440 Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Eastern time) Clinical Resources Our doctors Physician relations Clinical updates & insights Prediction tools Clinical trials Continuing medical education (CME) About Us Back About Us Our mission: Ending cancer for life. Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center was founded in 1884, and today is a world leader in patient care, research, and educational programs. About Us Our mission, vision & core values Leadership History Inclusion & belonging Annual report Give to MSK For the Media Media inquiries Press Releases Newsroom Have Questions? Contact us Plan Your Visit Explore our locations Directions Visitor policy MSK MyChart Donate Now Sloan Kettering Institute Research Back Research Programs & Centers Sloan Kettering Institute Pursuing basic and translational research across 9 programs and 100+ labs Memorial Hospital research Focusing on clinical cancer research and population health Human Oncology & Pathogenesis Program (HOPP) Bridging the lab and the clinic through translational research Collaborative research centers Fostering interdisciplinary collaborations between laboratory scientists and clinicians Extramural collaborations Partnering with other academic and research institutions Research at MSK Our research impact Research topics Core facilities & resources Offering state-of-the-art resources for our researchers Find a researcher or lab Education & training programs MSK Innovation MSK Commercialization Ecosystem Partnering, new ventures, and business accelerators Clinical Trial Innovation Incubating and implementing better ways to run clinical trials Our Innovation Story Showcasing key developments and achievements Education & Training Back Education & Training For Healthcare Graduate medical education (GME) Medical student opportunities Continuing medical education (CME) Continuing nursing education (CNE) Academic departments & divisions Explore all programs For Research Postdoctoral training Gerstner Sloan Kettering Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences PhD & MD/PhD programs Explore all programs Careers MSK Direct Locations & Language Back Locations & Language In the U.S. English Español Pусский Outside of the U.S. العَرَبِيَّة Deutsch English Español 한국어 עִבְרִית Italiano Portugês Pу́сский Türkçe 中文 International Healthcare Professionals International Observership Program Close International Healthcare Professionals More About International Healthcare Professionals International Observership Program Bobst International Fellowship for Citizens of Lebanon MSK’s Global Cancer Research and Training (GCRT) Program Overview Education & Training Work Research Our Faculty How MSK’s GCRT Program Is Improving Colorectal Cancer Care In Nigeria MSKCC Project ECHO The Mammadi Soudavar Traveling Fellowship Seminars for Healthcare Professionals Share Print Email Copy Copied! Share The International Observership Program is open and accepting applications. Onsite visits are limited to 30 days and start dates are every other Monday. Please contact an MSK physician directly to arrange a visit and instructions on how to apply. Overview International Physicians currently employed outside of the United States and approved for the International Observer program engage in clinical and surgical observations, and shadow MSK faculty in their area of expertise. Federal regulations prevent international observers from having patient care responsibilities or involvement in any form of volunteer research. Applicants must arrange with an MSK faculty member to serve as host (sponsor) for the period of the visit. The number of applicants accepted is limited as we receive more requests than we can accommodate. Visits are restricted to a maximum of one month . **The International Observer Program at MSK is not designed for international medical graduates (IMG) residing in the United States or abroad, who intend to apply for residency or fellowship in the U.S. These applications will not be considered for this program. Observers will: Gain invaluable insight into advanced techniques and comprehensive oncology management Participate in discussions on diagnosis and treatment options, attend conferences and grand rounds and observe inpatient and outpatient rounds/clinics Improve professional communication by interacting with other medical professionals Who is eligible? Fully trained international physicians with several years of medical practice currently employed and practicing abroad. Applicants currently in a fellowship program abroad may apply to the specialty relevant to their fellowship and will be required to submit proof of residency completion. Residents must be in a specialized residency abroad and in their 3rd or 4th year in that program . Written confirmation from the program and medical school diploma are required to apply. Recent medical graduates and junior residents (first- and second-year residents) are not eligible for the program and are not able to apply. Medical students are not eligible for this program. Medical students both domestic and international may be interested in our medical elective program . Applying as an International Observer Contact an MSK faculty member to discuss visiting MSK – The International program does not match applicants with sponsors and is unable to give out faculty contact information Discuss and identify dates with the faculty member ( maximum one month ) Send CV and other documents if needed to the faculty member (sponsor) The faculty member (sponsor) will send the request to the International Observer office to start the process six months prior to your visit An email will be sent to the applicant with a link to complete the online application Acceptance is tentative until application is submitted, and the International Program officially approves the visit. Do not make any plans until the International observer program approves the application and sends official notification The approval process takes at least 4-6 weeks, and we are not able to accommodate every request due to high volume of requests. *Visitors entering the U.S. with the following visa types are eligible to participate: B1, B2, F2, H4, J2, L2, O3 or ESTA. Visitors are responsible for obtaining their visas and all expenses. No certificate or credit is given this is an Observership program only. Applicants from countries or geographies that are subject to comprehensive sanctions by the United States Government will not be accepted. Applicants from certain other countries or geographies may be rejected for other reasons, including but not limited to being named on a restricted list, being government officials of certain geographies, being from certain countries where business concerns about export control or intellectual property theft, or due to the burden of additional vetting requirements being too costly to implement. Currently, applicants not eligible if citizens of the following countries: Belarus, Cuba, Iran, Libya, North Korea, Russia, Syria and Venezuela. (List subject to change at any time) Up Next Bobst International Fellowship for Citizens of Lebanon Connect Contact us Locations Appointments 646-926-0947 Instagram Facebook X YouTube Linkedin About MSK About us Careers Giving Cancer Care Adult cancer types Child & teen cancer types Integrative medicine Nutrition & cancer Find a doctor Research & Education Sloan Kettering Institute Gerstner Sloan Kettering Graduate School Graduate medical education MSK Library Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Communication preferences Cookie preferences Legal disclaimer Accessibility statement Privacy policy Price transparency Public notices &copy; 2026 Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Log in drupal-bf4f67ddf-5zm5p