Welcome to Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs (BPP) | Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs | Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania 300) }" > Menu Home About Us BPP Team Advisory Committee Faculty Liaison Our Partners Information for FAQ Prospective Postdocs New Postdocs Current Postdocs Faculty Mentors Appointment Administrators Programs Calendar of Events RCR Training Grant Writing Career Development Communication Skills ESL Courses Research Success Skills Preparing for College Teaching in STEM Additional Trainings Past Events Archive Policies Penn Postdoc Policy Policies Procedures Stipends & Benefits Support Funding & Sponsorship Research Career Development Mental Health & Wellbeing Conflict Resolution Foreign National Postdocs Taxes Workplace Accommodations Belonging & Identity Memberships Campus Resources Contact Us Close mobile menu Close Menu Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs Home About Us BPP Team Advisory Committee Faculty Liaison Our Partners Information for FAQ Prospective Postdocs New Postdocs Current Postdocs Faculty Mentors Appointment Administrators Programs Calendar of Events RCR Training Grant Writing Career Development Communication Skills ESL Courses Research Success Skills Preparing for College Teaching in STEM Additional Trainings Past Events Archive Policies Penn Postdoc Policy Policies Procedures Stipends & Benefits Support Funding & Sponsorship Research Career Development Mental Health & Wellbeing Conflict Resolution Foreign National Postdocs Taxes Workplace Accommodations Belonging & Identity Memberships Campus Resources Contact Us BPP Postdocs and Staff attending the 2026 National Postdoc Association Conference Postdoc leadership past and present pose with outgoing BPP Faculty Director Dr. Maja Bucan Members of the Drapkin lab cheering on Penn at the arena Dr. Susan Weiss (past BPP faculty director), Dr. Jan Burkhardt (incoming BPP faculty director), and Dr. Maja Bucan (outgoing BPP faculty director) Postdocs celebrating at National Postdoc Appreciation Week 2024 Use arrow keys to view slides Move to previous gallery slide = slideCount-1"> Move to next gallery slide Welcome to Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs (BPP) The University of Pennsylvania&rsquo;s Perelman School of Medicine (PSOM) has long been a national leader in postdoctoral training. Nearly 20 years ago, PSOM established the first office in the country dedicated to supporting postdoctoral trainees. Since then, the Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs (BPP) office has expanded to serve researchers across the Schools of Medicine, Veterinary Medicine, Nursing, and Dental Medicine, as well as affiliated institutions like Children's Hospital Of Philadelphia, the Wistar Institute, Monell Chemical Senses Center, and Swarthmore College. BPP is proud to offer innovative technical and professional development programming year-round, empowering postdocs at every stage of their journeys. We encourage you to visit our FAQ page first to get a better understanding of how our website is organized, and to use the search function in the top right corner to help find answers to your questions. If you ever have questions or need assistance, however, don't hesitate to reach out! Quick Links Current Postdoc Resources Faculty Mentors Resources Appointment Administrator Resources BPP Procedures Stipends & Benefits Postdoc Policies Fellowships & Funding Opportunities Penn Postdoc Jobs Prospective Postdocs Annoucements AI Tool Usage at PSOM Monday, March 23, 2026 On Behalf of Lisa Bellini, MD, Executive Vice Dean/ SVP of Academic Affairs, and the PSOM AI Implementation and Training Committee. As AI tools become more widely used across PSOM, we want to share a brief update on PSOM‑approved AI tools and guidance for their safe and appropriate use. Please review the attached PSOM AI Tools Infographic and detailed PDF , which provides a quick visual overview and addition guidance. Penn-wide updates and announcements Click here to access Penn-wide update and annoucements (also shared at the top of each BPP newsletter). BPP Newsletter Archive Access past BPP Postdoc Newsletter Upcoming BPP Events More Events Contact Us Biomedical Postdoctoral Programs M102 John Morgan 3620 Hamilton Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6015 Email Us Directions Links of Interest Workday@Penn BPP Appointment System (Pennkey login) BPP Appointment System (for candidates) Perelman School of Medicine Penn Vet Penn Nursing Penn Dental University of Pennsylvania &copy; The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser . | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: PMACS Web Team. | Sitemap