Observers - International Invited Guests | Providence Residency & Fellowship Programs Open Accessibility Menu Skip to Content Skip to Menu Increase Text Size Clear All Hide Warning Alert Info Alert Search Menu Home Washington Puget Sound For Observers Observers - International Invited Gue ... Observers - International Invited Guests Swedish Medical Center provides an opportunity for international healthcare professionals to observe with a medical staff member at Swedish Medical Center (SMC) and Swedish Medical Group (SMG) sites. An observership is a prearranged time, designed to provide a not-for-credit learning experience for an international invited guest. This Observership assumes that you have an established relationship with your Preceptor, who has agreed to your shadowing experience. Please read the International Invited Guest Policy and Procedures . Complete the International Preceptor Agreement and submit to GMEOnboarding@swedish.org. Make sure that we get a working, active email address for you, the invited guest. Please submit the completed Agreement as soon as possible, but at least six (6) months in advance of a proposed start date. After the Preceptor Agreement is validated by Swedish, you will receive an email communication instructing you to complete an Onboarding Checklist , which will request the remainder of Required Documents/Confirmations. The documents and confirmations must be official, legible, and in English. We recommend completing the checklist as soon as possible after receiving it, but no later than two months before a proposed start date. Required Documents / Confirmations* Preceptor Agreement (*Pre-Requisite) International Preceptor Agreement Confidentiality Form Confidentiality Form Background Check From nation of residence. Personal Health Insurance Card Scan of personal health insurance card -OR- Waiver Vaccine and Immunization Requirements Please see the Vaccine and Immunity Requirements Photo Photo should be passport-style, front-facing, with plain background Government Identification Card or Visa PDF Copy Curriculum Vitae PDF Copy Swedish Orientation Modules Safety Orientation Modules can be found here: Safety Video Safety Bundle HIPAA and Compliance For Observers Observers - US - International About Why Providence Help Us Improve Health Care Community Benefit Report Community Health Needs Assessments and Improvement Plans Our Doctors Site Map Resources For Caregivers (our employees) Career Opportunities Provider Jobs Classes and Events Online Bill Pay Read Our Blog Our Mission As expressions of God's healing love, witnessed through the ministry of Jesus, we are steadfast in serving all, especially those who are poor and vulnerable. Our Vision and Values Compassion, Dignity, Justice, Excellence, Integrity. Learn more about our mission, vision and values Connect with Us Disclaimer Terms of Use & Privacy Policy Notice of Nondiscrimination and Accessibility Rights Notice of Privacy Practices &copy; 2026 Providence. All rights reserved. x ⚠ Your browser is out of date. To get the full experience of this website, please update to most recent version. Update My Browser 15480 Laguna Canyon Rd. Irvine , CA 92618 Map + Directions Copyright &copy; 2026 Privacy Policy Site Map