Medical Education | Graduate Programs | MedStar Health skip to main navigation Healthcare Services Find a Doctor Locations Patient Portal Research and Education Careers menu What can we help you find? Your recent searches Urgent Care Primary Care Specialty Care Telehealth Find a Doctor Find a Location Careers Nursing Careers Physical Therapy Careers Medical Education Research & Innovation Patient Portal Pay My Bill Billing & Insurance Questions Contact Us About Us For Healthcare Professionals News & Publications Classes & Events Philanthropy . Your recent searches Medical Education | Graduate Programs | MedStar Health MedStar Health > Education > Medical Education at MedStar Health Medical Education Medical Education Application Process Salary & Benefits Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Medical Student Programs Other Programs Resident & Fellow Leadership Medical Education Leadership Staff GME Onboarding Contact Program Director Resources Medical Education at MedStar Health Contact Us Browse this page Our post-graduate medical education programs prepare physicians to transform health and wellness delivery through compassionate patient care, groundbreaking scientific research, and solution-based medical innovations. Our mission To support a culture that promotes a robust environment through learning, discovery, and innovation that provides the highest quality of care and advances health. Our vision To have an established culture that supports lifelong learning, where every person identifies as a learner. MedStar health combines the best aspects of academic medicine, research, and innovation with a complete spectrum of clinical services to advance patient care. MedStar Health-Georgetown University Partnership We have a strong partnership with Georgetown University, which is consistently ranked among the country&rsquo;s top universities. As an academic health system, MedStar Health and Georgetown University&rsquo;s shared mission is to transform health and advance health equity through our partnership of research innovation, education expertise, compassionate care, and community collaboration. Learn More Graduate medical education (GME) The medical education and clinical partner of Georgetown University, MedStar Health has one of the largest graduate medical education programs in the country. We train more than 1,100 medical residents annually and offer training in nearly 100 specialty and subspecialty programs. Graduate Medical Education at MedStar Health with Jamie Padmore Residency programs Check out our list of residency programs available in over 30 disciplines from Anesthesiology to Vascular Surgery. Learn More Fellowship programs Our fellowship programs provide exceptional clinical training and research opportunities to help develop clinical expertise in the field of study. Learn More Continuing professional education MedStar Health demonstrates a clear commitment to continuing education through its Interprofessional Continuing Education (IPCE) Program. Learn More Faculty development programs MedStar Health is committed to providing opportunities for our faculty to continue their own professional development. Learn More Programs for medical students Medical students at Georgetown University have the option of enrolling in numerous courses to increase their clinical education and training in a particular subspecialty. Learn More Other educational programs MedStar Health offers other educational programs for physicians and medical students. Learn More Advanced practice educational and allied health programs MedStar health builds confidence and prepares APPs and Allied Health fellows as they enter clinical practices. Learn more about our APP hospital medicine program Learn more about our APP emergency medicine program Learn more about our APP urgent care program Learn more about our interprofessional palliative care program Salary and benefits As a member of the MedStar Health Graduate Medical Education family, we want to provide you with the same amazing care you provide MedStar patients every day. Learn More How to apply To apply for residency or fellowship you must go through an internet-based applications process to transmit applications, letters of recommendation, Program Director letters, medical transcripts, and other supporting credentials to fellowship program directors. Learn More Meet our GME team Medical education leadership See the leaders helping to shape the MedStar Health education program. Learn More GME staff MedStar Health is proud to have a team of dedicated Graduate Medical Education support staff available to assist our program directors, coordinators, current residents and fellows, and prospective students with resources they need to ensure an outstanding training experience. Learn More Resident and fellow leadership Recognizing the value in bringing resident perspective to the executive leadership team, the MedStar Health Physician Leadership Council accepts applications for leadership opportunities. Learn More Contact If you have a passion for excellence in medical training, look to the opportunities at MedStar Health. We offer the best aspects of academic medicine, research, and innovation combined with a complete spectrum of clinical services to advance patient care. We invite you to learn how we can help your professional development. Contact us Resources Information on program directors, FAQs, and more. GME Onboarding Program Director Resources Close dialog Use My Current Location Please Enable Location Services in Your Browser Settings to Continue Or Enter Your Preferred Location Invalid Address ! Update Preferred Location Business Local Impact COVID-19 Information Disclaimer Disclosure of Outside Interests Equity, Inclusion & Diversity Feedback Financial Assistance Policy Good Faith Estimate and No Surprise Billing Infection Control Policy MedStar Family Choice MedStar Health Office Policies Notice of Nondiscrimination Online Privacy Policy Patient and Visitor Code of Conduct Patient Privacy Policy Patient Rights & Responsibilities Price Transparency Quality & Patient Safety Social Media Sites and Disclaimers Support Persons for Patients with Disabilities Translate &copy; 2026 MedStar Health Careers Contact Us Medstar Facebook opens a new window Medstar Twitter opens a new window Medstar Instagram opens a new window Medstar Youtube opens a new window Medstar Linkedin opens a new window