Visiting Medical Students | College of Medicine - Tucson Skip to main content Search search Internal Resources Accreditation, Quality & Analytics Academy of Medical Education Scholars Brand Communications Curricular Affairs Faculty Affairs Graduate Medical Education Kindness Is Good Medicine Leadership Directory Professionalism Professionalism Kindness Is Good Medicine Brand Communications search Search menu Menu home Home close Close Search search chevron_left Back to Degree Programs MD Program Educational Program Objectives (EPOs) and Competencies Admissions chevron_right Blocks and Clerkships Distinction Tracks chevron_right Scholarly Project Societies Mentorship Visiting Medical Students Directory Careers Give Main navigation About About Departments & Centers Basic Science Departments Basic Science Departments Cellular and Molecular Medicine Chemistry and Biochemistry Immunobiology Pharmacology Physiology Clinical Departments Clinical Departments Anesthesiology Dermatology Emergency Medicine Family and Community Medicine Department of Medicine Neurology Neurosurgery Obstetrics and Gynecology Ophthalmology and Vision Science Orthopaedic Surgery Otolaryngology – Head and Neck Surgery Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Pediatrics Psychiatry Radiation Oncology Radiology and Imaging Sciences Surgery Urology Leadership Education Degree Programs Degree Programs MD Program Dual-Degree MD Programs MS and PhD Programs Undergraduate Non-Degree Courses Residencies & Fellowships Residencies & Fellowships Current Residents and Fellows Prospective Residents & Fellows Visiting Residents & Fellows Community Education Financial Aid Research News Alumni & Donors Support the College Alumni Fuel Wonder Fuel Wonder Comprehensive Cardiovascular Institute Student Success Valley Fever Center Events Events Research Day Student Milestones Student Milestones White Coat Match Day Convocation Calendar College of Medicine – Tucson Education Degree Programs MD Program Visiting Medical Students Education Visiting Medical Students The University of Arizona College of Medicine – Tucson accepts visiting students from other accredited medical schools. Applications are made through the Visiting Student Application Service (VSAS) . The College of Medicine – Tucson Electives Catalog opens for applications in April. Applications are processed and offers extended no more than eight weeks prior to the start date for each elective. Eligibility To be a visiting student at the University of Arizona, you must: be in your fourth year of medical school at an LCME- or COCA-accredited program attend a university that has an affiliation agreement with the College of Medicine – Tucson have either BLS or ACLS training that has not expired Some electives require a letter of recommendation. We highly recommend you upload a letter of recommendation when you are submitting your application to VSAS. Application Components An application is considered complete when it includes uploads of a student’s: CV transcript photo USMLE Step 1 score report completed immunization form Incomplete applications will be deemed ineligible and will not be reconsidered. For complete applications, the individual department reviews the VSAS applications specific to that specialty. Once an offer is made, the visiting student has one (1) week to accept or deny the offer. Students are responsible for finding housing during the time that they are in Tucson. In addition, students may not take more than two (2) electives. Accepted Students All students who have accepted rotations with the University of Arizona College of Medicine – Tucson must complete My Clinical Exchange (MCE) for credentialing. There is a $39 registration fee to sign up for My Clinical Exchange. My Clinical Exchange Enrollment Instructions My Clinical Exchange Dual Enrollment Instructions There is a $125 processing fee that is due once the student accepts the University of Arizona’s offer. Housing The University of Arizona College of Medicine – Tucson does not provide housing for visiting medical students. We recommend you visit Rotating Room to search for accommodations. Other options can also be found on our Off-Campus Housing page. International Students The University of Arizona College of Medicine – Tucson does not allow international students to enroll in our courses. However, if a student has an established relationship with one of our faculty members and that faculty wishes to directly supervise the student in an education activity here, then the faculty member may apply to the Dean of the College of Medicine – Tucson for permission to sponsor the student. If an international student does not have such a relationship with one of our faculty members, we will not consider their request. Footer - Main Employment Emergency Information Nondiscrimination Campus Safety Copyright Campus Accessibility Contact Us Feedback Information For Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Donors Parents & Visitors Corporations & Businesses Topics About the University Academics Arts & Museums Athletics & Recreation Campus Store Colleges, Schools, Departments Environment & Sustainability International Engagement Health & Medical Libraries Research & Innovation Purpose, Mission & Values Resources Directory Calendars Campus Map News Phonebook Weather Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn YouTube We respectfully acknowledge the University of Arizona is on the land and territories of Indigenous peoples . Today, Arizona is home to 22 federally recognized tribes, with Tucson being home to the O’odham and the Yaqui. The university strives to build sustainable relationships with sovereign Native Nations and Indigenous communities through education offerings, partnerships, and community service. University Information Security and Privacy &copy; 2026 The Arizona Board of Regents on behalf of The University of Arizona . keyboard_arrow_up Back to top