Visiting International Student Elective Program | MD Program Skip to Main Content Yale School of Medicine About YSM Faculty Staff Students Residents & Fellows Patients Researchers Alumni Yale School of Medicine / Medical Education / MD Program MENU Yale School of Medicine MENU MD Program About Office of the Deputy Dean Committees MD Admissions Committee Progress Committee Educational Policy and Curriculum Committee EPCC Committee Minutes Thesis Chair Committee Curriculum Mapping Documents LCME Accreditation Student Research Finding a Research Mentor Faculty Mentor Responsibilities and Resources Departmental Thesis Chairs First-Year Summer Research Short-term Research One-year Fellowships Travel Info & Reimbursement MD Thesis Research Didactics START Summer Program Master of Health Science Student Research Day Student Research Team Visiting Student Programs Students from US Medical Schools Visiting Student Scholarship Program International Students International Student FAQs Admissions How to Apply Connect The Yale System Dates and Deadlines Pre-medical Requirements Admissions Team Student Affairs Academic and Career Advising in Advisory Houses Advisory Houses Creed House Hamburg House Horstmann House Palade House Slayman House Yan House Academic Advising Career Advising Specialty-Specific Advisors/Resources Community Building Performance Improvement Policies, Procedures & Guidelines By Topic PreClerkship Policies Clerkship & ATP Policies University Policy Links Well-Being Student Mental Health & Wellness Program Meet our Staff & Make an Appointment Wellness Programming: Upcoming Events FAQs Resources Peer Advocate Program Security You said . . . We did . . . Student Life Day in the life of Med student The YSM Experience Annual Events Student Groups Yale Vascular and Endovascular Surgery Interest Group (VESIG) Leadership Medical Student Council Elections Perspectives on Medicine Series Registrar Scheduling Clerkships Electives & Subinternships USMLE Extended Study at YSM Student Affairs Team Financial Aid MD Program Application Process International Students MD Student Cost of Attendance 2026-2027 Cost of Attendance 2025-2026 Cost of Attendance 2024-2025 Cost of Attendance 2023-2024 Cost of Attendance 2022-2023 Cost of Attendance 2021-2022 Cost of Attendance Research Funding, Extended Study and Financial Aid Frequently Asked Questions PA Program PA Online Program Application Process PA Online Student Budget Forms & Resources FAFSA Application CSS Profile Application How to Avoid Common Errors Student Billing Information Financial Literacy Information Scholarships & Loans External Scholarships Loans Financial Aid Team Special Programs Global Health Certificate in Global Medicine Electives & Educational Opportunities Topics in Global Medicine and Health Global Health Seminar Summer Research Abroad Electives at Other Yale Graduate Schools Yale Global Health Students United for Regional and Global Education (YGH SURGE) About the Course Global Clinical Electives Africa Ghana South Africa Uganda Asia China India Vietnam The Americas and the Caribbean Argentina Arizona California Chile Colombia New Mexico Tennessee Lectures, Series, & Conferences Community & Advocacy Opportunities Faculty Advisors & Mentors Global Health Team Yale Center for Healthcare Simulation Services & Facilities Program & Faculty Development Education & Research Simulated Participants Simulation Academy at Yale About Us Year in Review People SEPA Advisory Board News Mentoring Faculty & Staff Advisory Board News HAVEN Free Clinic Neighborhood Health Project Humanities in Medicine Biomedical Ethics Yale Journal of Biology & Medicine University Engagement Opportunities Community Engagement Opportunities Curriculum Competencies & Grad Requirements Competencies Guiding Principles Graduation Requirements Calendar Pre-Clerkship Year 1 Curriculum Year 2 Curriculum Eight Master Courses Introduction to the Profession (iPro) Scientific Foundations Genes and Development Attacks and Defenses Homeostasis Energy and Metabolism Connection to the World Across the Lifespan Four Longitudinal Courses Professional Responsibility Anatomy Scientific Inquiry Populations & Methods Ten Longitudinal Threads Biochemistry Cell Biology Diagnostic Methods Embryology Genetics Health Equity About Us Pedagogy Domains of the Health Equity Thread Advisory Group Publications Pathology Nutrition Pharmacology Physiology Clinical Skills Communications Skills Clinical Reasoning Palliative Care Physical Examination Point of Care Ultrasound Early Clinical Experiences Clerkship Surgery Emergency Medicine OBGYN Pediatrics Primary Care Psychiatry Internal Medicine Neurology Palliative Care Curriculum Student Assignments, Workshops, & Resources Recommended Readings Online Learning Interprofessional Educational Faculty News Advanced Training Clinical Electives Elective/Subinternship Listings Anesthesiology Child Study Center Clinical Longitudinal Elective Definitions Dermatology Diagnostic Imaging Emergency Medicine Family Medicine Genetics Internal Medicine Interventional Radiology Laboratory Medicine Neurology Neurosurgery Obstetrics, Gynecology & Reproductive Sciences Ophthalmology and Visual Science Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation Pathology Pediatrics Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Primary Care Psychiatry Surgery STEP 1 Pilot Electives Therapeutic Radiology Urology Contact Info for Electives Elective Dates Wednesday Evening Clinic WEC Faculty Suggested Electives for Residency Non-Clinical Electives Coaching Program Concentrations Inclusive Glossary Disability LGBTQIA+ Patient-Centered Language Poverty Race & Ethnicity Sex & Gender Full Glossary of Terms About The Inclusive Language Initiative Glossary Bibliography Curriculum Team Self-Study Task Force Faculty Training Joint MD Programs YSM Home INFORMATION FOR About YSM Faculty Staff Students Residents & Fellows Patients Researchers Alumni Home Visiting Student Programs International Students International Student FAQs Visiting International Student Elective Program The Office of Global Health Education and Visiting Student Programs supports a robust Visiting International Student Elective Program for international students coming to Yale to do clinical electives. The program receives between 450 and 500 applications a year, and accepts about 100 students. On this page Eligibility Copy Link Students studying at international medical schools, must meet the following criteria to be eligible to enroll in up to three four-week clinical elective rotations, through AAMC VSLO. Students must be in good standing. Students must have completed all core clinical clerkships before beginning the clinical elective program. Students must be proficient in the English language. Students must be in their final year of medical studies or completed their core clerkships in order to participate in the elective program. Yale does not provide core clerkships to visiting students, only electives, these electives do not satisfy the requirements of core clerkships. Yale does not offer observerships/externships. Electives Copy Link We offer clinical electives in many specialties of medicine. These are electives and do not meet requirements for core clinical clerkships. All electives are four weeks in length per clinical elective rotation. (We do not offer two-week elective rotations for visiting medical students.) Students may apply for a maximum of three (3) four-week electives, but these electives must be in different specialties. This link provides a list of the electives. Please note, not all electives listed accept international students. The description of each elective on the list includes whether international students are accepted or not. Read the descriptions of electives carefully within the Elective Catalog Listing before selecting your choices in the AAMC VSLO application. You may not change your choices or dates of elective after your application has been submitted to the elective department at Yale School of Medicine Application Copy Link Application Timeline/Deadline Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) applications will be available each academic year in February for the first semester of the coming academic year, and in September for the second semester of that academic year. We recommend that you submit your application six months before the start of your chosen elective start date. The latest you can apply is four months prior to the start of the desired elective. If you are applying for an elective in the months of January or February, we will not be able to place you in the requested electives until the Yale students finalize their schedules in late December/early January. We will do our best to let you know about the outcome of your application as soon as possible. Please note that we do not place visiting students in the first rotation blocks of each semester (mid-June and January). Please review the VSLO website for the next available rotation. Application for students at schools that are a participating member of the AAMC – VSLO If your home institution is currently a participating member of the AAMC – VSLO, please follow the link below to complete the online application process. VSLO Participating Members If your home institution is not currently an active member of the AAMC - VSLO, you still can apply. You will need to complete a brief registration form in order to gain access to apply through VSLO. Please follow the link below to complete the brief registration. NON-VSLO Members You will be provided additional instruction upon completion of the registration. Please note, it will take up to five business days to process your registration form. Information about what you need to submit as part of your application Complete the AAMC Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) application. Please note, non-AAMC VSLO members will need to mail in required documentation within five (5) days of submitting their application. Application Deadline: Your application should be submitted 4 - 6 months before the start of your chosen elective. Applications submitted after the four (4) month deadline will not be considered. Letter of support from the Dean of the medical school Must be uploaded by your home institution through VSLO or as noted in VSLO. The letter of support will need to include verification that student is in the final year of medical school and that the student is in good academic standing The letter of support must indicate the completion of the required core clerkships or note when the required core clerkship will be complete. The letter of support must be written on the medical school's official letter head/stationary, with the original school seal, the dean's original signature and e-mail address. The letter of support must include the applicants current class ranking, should class ranking not be available your home institution will need to provide a letter indicating rank is not given. The letter of support must be in English or accompanied by an English translation. Copy of student’s current transcript Must be uploaded by your home institution through VSLO or as noted in VSLO. Must included completed required core clerkships Must be written in English or accompanied by an English translation. Curriculum vitae (CV) Must be uploaded by the applicant. Must list student’s education, completed clinical electives/sub-internships, publications, and other professional accomplishments. Letter of recommendation Must be uploaded by your home institution through VSLO or as noted in VSLO. Must be from a member of the faculty at student’s medical school who has observed student's clinical skills. Must be written in English or with English translation and must be submitted with the faculty member's original signature on medical school's official stationery. AAMC Standardized Immunization Form Must be uploaded by the applicant. Must be translated in English including the immunization records and other documentation. If the student PPD is positive, student must INCLUDE a copy of chest x-ray report in English or with English translation. The OGHE requires documentation of a quantitative hepatitis B surface antibody titer. A non-quantitative result (i.e., "Positive") is not acceptable. Proof of health insurance Must be uploaded by applicant. Must detail health insurance coverage for the duration of the clinical elective at Yale. This certificate should be obtained from student’s health insurance company. Must be translated in English. Proof of Health Insurance is not required at application, but must be submitted upon acceptance. Personal statement Must be uploaded by applicant. Personal statement should describe student’s career goals, how this experience will help student achieve them, and what student has accomplished thus far in pursuit of those goals. Personal statement should also include cultural opportunities student will pursue during his/her stay at YSM outside of the clinical setting. A record of student TOEFL scores is REQUIRED if student is a non-native English speaker Must be uploaded by applicant. Accepted language proficiency test include, TOEFL, IELTS, OET, and CAE All applicants are required to submit all required documentation before the 120-day deadline; to have applications considered for a clinical elective rotation, we will not fully process incomplete applications. We cannot accept copies of any of the required documentation, however, we can accept a certified copy with raised seal. Submission of incomplete applications or xerox copies of required documentation, will result in the applicants being marked ineligible. AAMC Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) Upon acceptance of a clinical elective rotation at YSM, the accepted students’ home institution will need to complete a required Clinical Training Agreement. If your home institution is currently a participating member of AAMC VSLO please follow the link below to complete the online application process. VSLO Participating Members If your home institution is not currently a participating member of AAMC VSLO, you can still apply through the Yale Free Movers program. You will need to complete a brief registration form in order to gain access to apply through VSLO. Please follow the link below to complete the brief registration, you will be provided with additional instruction upon completion of the registration. Please note the registration process will take up to 5-10 business days to complete. You will receive an email from the AAMC, once the registration is complete. NON-VSLO Members Tuition and Other Costs Copy Link Tuition The tuition for a four-week clinical elective for students from international medical schools for academic year 2026-2027 is $4,775 USD. The tuition for eight weeks is $9,550 USD. The tuition for twelve weeks is $14,325 USD. Tuition is subject to increases with every new academic year. This typically happens in July. Housing Costs Yale Off Campus Housing , a website that Yale University created, contains useful links for housing in the area of the medical campus. Other Costs We estimate that minimum living expenses for a month in New Haven will amount to at least $2,240, excluding the cost of housing. FAQs Copy Link Yale School of Medicine’s Office of Global Health Education and Visiting Student Programs has compiled these FAQs , which answer many questions international students commonly ask about visiting elective opportunities. Elective/Subinternship Listing Yale School of Medicine Medical Education 367 Cedar Street New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions 7 Events you could attend in May 2026 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Nondiscrimination & Title IX Safety & Security Terms & Privacy Statement Yale University Manage Cookie Preferences © 2026 Yale School of Medicine . Updated February 4, 2026 Back to Top Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads