Postdoctoral Training | University of Pittsburgh Skip to main content University of Pittsburgh Pitt Home Find People Search Postdoctoral Training Toggle navigation Welcome Positions & Grants Essential Information Support & Resources Career & Professional Development Resources Research Resources Networking Resources University-wide Resources Pittsburgh Community Information Data News & Events Postdoc News Career Design Workshop Series University Events Calendar OACD, Health Sciences Events Calendar Contact Us Postdoctoral Community Join a vibrant community of 800+ postdocs in 15 schools. Research Embark on pioneering research in Pitt's state-of-the-art facilities. Compensation and Benefits Find competitive compensation and family-friendly benefits. Career Development Take advantage of individual career planning and development resources. Postdoctoral Association The UPPDA promotes a culture of representation and advocacy for a positive postdoctoral experience. Postdoctoral Training at Pitt Join a world-class center for pioneering research and scholarship. Postdocs are vital members of our institutional culture, valued and respected for their significant contributions to the University of Pittsburgh's research enterprise. The scientific training and professional career development of postdocs are supported by a variety of institutional programs and services. Learn More about Postdoctoral Training at Pitt Resources Classifications and Benefits Learn about classifications, benefits, time-off and leave policies, including parental leave and FMLA, as well as student loan programs. Postdoctoral Compensation Find Pitt's Minimum Compensation Policies and info on taxation for postdoctoral associates and scholars. Parental Leave Guidelines Find parental leave information in the Guidelines for Postdoctoral Associates and Postdoctoral Scholars document. International Services This welcoming, professional office serves Pitt's community of international students, postdoctoral scholars and researchers, faculty and staff. Cool Pittsburgh Pittsburgh, known as the "City of Bridges," is a vibrant place to live, with many things to do and places to go. Postdoctoral Association The University of Pittsburgh Postdoctoral Association (UPPDA) is a dynamic professional organization supporting postdoc training. Home News View All News Dr. Michael Gold Wins 2026 Gallagher Mentor Award University-wide Resources for Postdocs - February 2026 This postdoc designed a board game based on his immunology research View All News Events View All Events Postdoctoral Training University of Pittsburgh Office of the Provost 1900 Cathedral of Learning Pittsburgh, PA 15260​ postdoc@pitt.edu Academic Calendar Report a Digital Accessibility Barrier Office of the Provost Office of the Provost - Graduate Studies Ombuds for Postdocs Pitt Concern Connection Revised 05/12/26 Copyright 2026 Send feedback about this site.