Visiting Medical Students | Doctor of Medicine (MD) Program | RUSH University Skip to main content Get Health Care About Giving Find Faculty Library Rush U Portal I am a... Select from the list below to customize your experience: Select a new category I am a : Alumni Current Student Faculty/Staff Member Resident/Fellow Education Looking to take the next step in your career? Rush University offers a wide range of education and training options, including nationally ranked academic programs. Find a Program Colleges College of Health Sciences College of Nursing Rush Medical College Quick Links Education at Rush Graduate Medical Education Academic Affairs Admissions Student Life Experience what life is like at Rush University, and discover what our supportive learning community has to offer. Learn More About Student Life About the Rush Experience Our Location Community Service Diversity, Inclusion & Engagement Getting Involved Interprofessional Education Quick Links Student Affairs Wellness Services Accessibility & Accommodations Research Rush researchers are leading efforts to cure disease and promote health equity — in Chicago and around the world. Learn More About Research About Our Research Departments, Centers & Labs Research Collaborations Clinical Trials Institute for Translational Medicine Meet Our Rush Researchers Quick Links Office of Research Compliance Resources for Researchers Getting Started: A Guide to Doing Research at Rush Get Health Care About Giving Find Faculty Library Rush U Portal I am a... Select from the list below to customize your experience: Select a new category I am a : Alumni Current Student Faculty/Staff Member Resident/Fellow Search Rush University Visiting Medical Students Breadcrumb Home Rush Medical College Rush Medical College Admissions Doctor of Medicine (MD) Program Visiting Medical Students Doctor of Medicine (MD) Program Doctor of Medicine (MD) Program Doctor of Medicine (MD) Curriculum Preclerkship Curriculum Clerkship Curriculum Family Medicine Leadership Program Health Equity and Social Justice Leadership Program Research Opportunities Doctor of Medicine Licensing Disclosure Medical Student Affairs Academic Support Services Advising Career and Professional Development Meet the MSA Team Student Well-Being Visiting Medical Students Match Day In This Section Doctor of Medicine (MD) Program Doctor of Medicine (MD) Curriculum Preclerkship Curriculum Clerkship Curriculum Family Medicine Leadership Program Health Equity and Social Justice Leadership Program Research Opportunities Doctor of Medicine Licensing Disclosure Medical Student Affairs Academic Support Services Advising Career and Professional Development Meet the MSA Team Student Well-Being Visiting Medical Students Match Day Image Rush Medical College offers two options for students interested in completing clerkship rotations at Rush University Medical Center — the Visiting Medical Students Program and the Rush Visiting Scholars Program . Visiting Medical Students Program Rush Medical College welcomes applications for visiting medical students from LCME-accredited or COCA-accredited medical schools only, who want to pursue clinical elective rotations at Rush University Medical Center. Applicants must be currently enrolled in medical school, be in good academic standing and have completed all required M3 core rotations prior to the elective time period. Rush Medical College uses the Association of American Medical Colleges' Visiting Student Application Service (VSAS) to receive and process visiting student applications. Electives are available if space permits. Applications for each rotation are due eight weeks before the rotation begins. Application Requirements Applicants are required to provide the following documents through VSAS: Immunization Record Step 1 Score Report Personal Statement Transcript Proof of Malpractice Insurance Applications for the 2026-2027 academic year will be available in VSAS starting in early March 2026 For more information, please contact rmc_visitingstudents@rush.edu . Department Applications In addition to the VSAS application, some Rush departments require a pre-application for visiting students. Emergency Medicine Orthopedic Surgery Otolaryngology Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery 2026 Academic Calendar for Visiting Students Start Date End Date July 6, 2026 July 31, 2026 August 3, 2026 August 28, 2026 August 31, 2026 September 25, 2026 September 28, 2026 October 23, 2026 October 26, 2026 November 20 2026 November 23, 2026 December 18, 2026 Rush Visiting Scholars Program The Rush Diversity and Inclusion Visiting Scholars Program is an innovative program that is designed to advance our diversity and inclusion mission, provide mentoring, networking, stipend support, and the opportunity to experience clinical medicine at Rush located on the West Side of Chicago. We are seeking exceptional medical students who have demonstrated a commitment to health equity and addressing health and healthcare disparities in underserved and marginalized communities. During the program, you will receive outstanding clinical experiences, expert teaching from faculty who are passionate about their work, and exposure to clinical opportunities at Rush University Medical Center, all in an environment focused on personal growth and well-being. You will become a vital member of our health care community through mentoring, attendance at Grand Rounds and M&M conferences, opportunities for community service participation, and interactions with Rush organizations such as the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion committee , RushPRIDE and Rush’s chapters of the Student National Medical Association and the Latino Medical Student Association . Additionally, you will have an opportunity to meet with the residency program administration. This program provides clinical elective experience between July – October each year in the following specialties: Diagnostic Radiology Emergency Medicine Internal Medicine Medicine-Pediatrics Obstetrics and Gynecology Ophthalmology Orthopedic Surgery Otorhinolaryngology Neurological Sciences Pediatrics Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Plastic Surgery Psychiatry Radiation Oncology Urology Participants will receive a living stipend based on their enrollment in a Rush elective and the location of their home institution. Selection Criteria Fourth-year students in their final year of medical school who have demonstrated a commitment to health equity and addressing health and healthcare disparities in underserved and marginalized communities and meet the following criteria are encouraged to apply to the Rush Visiting Scholars Program: Currently pursuing a medical degree at an LCME accredited institution Are in good academic standing Have completed all required M3 core rotations by June 30, 2026 Are a U.S. Citizen, Permanent Resident or of asylee, refugee or DACA status. (You will be required to provide supporting documentation) Application Information Students interested in the Rush Visiting Scholars Program can apply online . An invitation to submit the AAMC Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) application will follow. For individuals accepted into the program, Rush Medical College will waive the VSLO application fee. Apply now For more information about the Rush Visiting Scholars Program, please contact OIME_Diversity@rush.edu . Linkedin Instagram Youtube Facebook Twitter Main Section Colleges College of Health Sciences College of Nursing Rush Medical College For Professionals Faculty Affairs Work at Rush University Continuing Education Research For Students Student Affairs Tuition and Financial Aid Find Faculty Library Resources Alumni Get Directions News & Events Cookie Settings (312) 942-7100 Rush University 600 S. Paulina St. Chicago, Illinois 60612 Contact Us Accessibility, Privacy & Harassment Policies Accessibility and Accommodations Equal Opportunity Harassment Prevention Student Disclosure Information Privacy Policy © 2026 Rush University