Visiting Clerkship and Mentorship Program | MD Program | Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania 300) }" > Skip to main content Site Navigation Close Navigation Search Explore by topic MD Program Home UME Leadership Team Admissions & Financial Aid Combined Degree & Physician Scholars ASCEND LCME MD Curriculum Curriculum Advanced Ed Opportunities Areas of Concentration Graduation Requirements PennMedicine Clinical Research Standardized Patients Policies Pre-Medical Enrichment and Experiences Overview Johnson Scholars PASS Program High School Pre-Medical Programs Registrar Student Affairs Support & Resources Development & Alumni Relations Perelman School of Medicine University of Pennsylvania Give Today Development & Alumni Relations Perelman School of Medicine University of Pennsylvania Give Today MD Program Current Students Absence Request Forms Core 1: Clinical Encounters and Small Group Absence Core 2: Clerkship Absence Core 3: Electives Absence Critical Dates by Year MS-1 MS-2 MS-3 MS-4 Info for Graduating Students Award & Prize Nominations Important Dates Outstanding Bills PSOM Graduation University Graduation Professionalism & Student Mistreatment PSOM Professionalism Portal Student Mistreatment Portal Registrar’s Request Forms JMEC Access - PennCard Update Jury Duty Excusal Letter of Good Standing Scholarly Extension Transcripts Student Groups & Activities Community Outreach Med Student Government MSG Student Resources Student Events Calendar Student Interest Groups Prospective Students Academics & Policies MD Currriculum Policies PSOM Brochure 2023 PSOM Professionalism Portal Standardized Patients Student Mistreatment Portal Extracurricular Opportunities Advanced Education Areas of Concentration Community Outreach PennMedicine Clinical Research Research & Fellowship Student Affairs Houses & Advisory Deans Office of Student Affairs Student Groups & Activities Honor Societies Med Student Government Student Events Calendar Student Interest Groups What Else to Know Campus Resources MSAR Report: PSOM Support & Resources Wellness Principles Visiting Students Getting Started Visiting Student Overview Course Catalog - OASIS Immunization Record Visiting Clerkship and Mentorship Program COVID-19 Requirements City of Philadelphia Commonwealth of Pennsylvania University of Pennsylvania Housing Options Short-Term Housing Information Pediatric Clearances Child Welfare Portal Criminal History Check IdentoGo Instructions IdentoGo Enrollment Transportation Penn Transportation & Parking Public Transportation - SEPTA More PSOM Professionalism Portal Student Mistreatment Portal Faculty Resources Career Development Continuing Medical and Interprofessional Education Program Education Officer Toolbox Professionalism MD Program Home UME Leadership Team Admissions & Financial Aid Combined Degree & Physician Scholars ASCEND LCME MD Curriculum Curriculum Advanced Ed Opportunities Areas of Concentration Graduation Requirements PennMedicine Clinical Research Standardized Patients Policies Pre-Medical Enrichment and Experiences Overview Johnson Scholars PASS Program High School Pre-Medical Programs Registrar Student Affairs Support & Resources Visiting Student Overview Visiting Clerkship and Mentorship Program Visiting Clerkship and Mentorship Program The Visiting Clerkship Program encompasses numerous opportunities for 4th year medical students, and seeks to address some of the obstacles that can limit access to medical training. Students are invited to explore rotations at the Children’s Hospital of Philadelphia (CHOP), the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania (HUP), Penn Presbyterian Hospital (Presby), and Pennsylvania Hospital (PAH). The clerkship includes both sub-internship and elective experiences in top-ranked residency programs. Students not only have the opportunity to spend time learning first-hand what it is like to be a resident at these institutions, but they are paired with resident and/or faculty mentors and meet with Residency Program Leadership to aid in their recruitment and preparation for the interview season and Match process. Stipends are included. Program Highlights Each student is paired with a Faculty and/or Resident mentor in an area of their interest. Each student will be given the opportunity to have a personal meeting with a Residency Program Leader in the specialty of their interest. Stipends of $2000 to cover travel and housing. Opportunity to interact with current residents, fellows, and faculty at social events. Current Programs We offer sub-internships (acting internships) and elective courses with outpatient and consult clinical exposure in the following specialties: Anesthesiology Otorhinolaryngology Dermatology Pathology Emergency Medicine Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Family Medicine Plastic Surgery General Surgery Pediatrics Internal Medicine Psychiatry Neurology Radiology Neurosurgery Radiation Oncology Obstetrics & Gynecology Urology Ophthalmology Vascular Surgery Application Process The application for our Clerkship opens in February and is available through the Perelman School of Medicine’s VSLO application . Search “Perelman School of Medicine” under the Elective Catalogue. Then you can find the specific application by looking up the specialty of your choice and selecting “Visiting Clerkship Program.” Additional information for visiting student opportunities can be found on the Perelman School of Medicine Visiting Student Website . VSLO Application Requirements 2026 applications are now open All applicants must be rising 4th year (or final year if additional degrees or program longer than 4 years) medical students and should apply for the clerkship program that correlates to the subspecialty they are pursing in the Match. The application deadline is April 27th – however, some programs will have ongoing reviews and acceptances. Refer to VSLO for required documentation for your selected course; all requirements must be provided when your application is submitted. Contact For general questions or inquiries, please contact the Office of the Registrar . Frequently Asked Questions Are there general visiting student opportunities outside of this program? General visiting student rotations are available through the Perelman School of Medicine’s (PSOM) Registrar’s Office. If you are interested in rotating at Penn regardless of acceptance to our program, then you may want to move forward and apply for a general rotation slot now. More Information Here Close Are students from non-US medical schools eligible for this program? Non-US Medical Schools do not usually have agreements with Perelman School of Medicine to cover visiting students’ necessary insurance for a visiting rotation and, as such, are not eligible for this program. Medical students who attend schools in US territories (such as Puerto Rico) are eligible. Otherwise please look for opportunities through Penn’s Center for Global Health . Close Is there rolling acceptance for this program? Given the desire to communicate earlier with students, some specialty programs (General Surgery, Otolaryngology, Pediatrics, Radiation Oncology, Radiology, Urology) will be reviewing applications on a rolling basis and sending acceptances along the way until their spots are full. If you have a particular need to know earlier than a program’s deadline, please contact the appropriate Clerkship Coordinator or reach out to the Office of the Registrar . Close Are the rotation dates flexible? We know that the PSOM rotation dates do not always line up with the rotation dates for visiting students’ medical school schedules. We sometimes have flexibility with this and would encourage you to still apply. If accepted, we do our best to adjust the dates to accommodate your medical school schedule. Close What if I am already scheduled for a rotation at Penn and now want to apply to this program? That is no problem at all, but we still need you to complete the specific PSOM VSLO application for this program (sometimes there are a few additional items required, and often a different selection committee). If you are accepted for the Visiting Clerkship Program, then we’ll take care of things internally to switch you over. Close Does my letter of support have to come from an attending physician in a specific field? Students are encouraged to have an attending physician in the specialty to which they are pursuing complete the letter. We also know that some students have not yet rotated in a specific field or may not have connected with a faculty member who can write a letter by the time of the application deadline. If that is the case, then please have an attending who knows you and who can speak in strong support of you write the letter. Close Am I guaranteed an interview if I am accepted to this program? Interview selection is separate from participation in this program. Some of our participating specialties will invite all students accepted to the Visiting Clerkship Program to interview. Close How are funds disbursed for this rotation? All students accepted into the program will receive a $2,000 stipend. Students must complete the rotation, after which a stipend (please note that stipends are taxed) is sent. Documentation such as a W9, spending receipts, and possible additional forms will be collected by each Program Coordinator by the last week/week after the rotation is completed. Close Does the program arrange or offer housing? We do not have direct housing provision through this program. Students are encouraged to utilize resources on the PSOM Registrar’s website for Visiting Students (scroll down to “Short-term Housing Opportunities"). Past program participants have also utilized multi-week Airbnb reservations or gotten in touch with members of student interest groups at the Perelman School of Medicine who may have space available. Once students are accepted, we also share potential housing options from faculty and trainees. Close Give Today Latest News 1"> Move to previous slide = slideCount-1"> Move to next slide Most who meet proposed CTE criteria do not show disease signs at autopsy May 13, 2026 New research finds that those who met proposed TES criteria often didn&rsquo;t match CTE pathology at autopsy, raising concerns about misdiagnosis. Penn research into Friedreich’s ataxia reveals how DNA folding can silence a key gene May 11, 2026 Penn research into Friedreich&rsquo;s ataxia reveals how DNA folding can silence a key gene. Immune protein a possible target to slow Parkinson’s disease May 11, 2026 The research may offer a promising strategy for developing a treatment that slows disease progression at its earliest stages. Where 275 years of medical history come to life May 06, 2026 The future of medicine grows from understanding its past, and Pennsylvania Hospital&rsquo;s museum brings that history to life in a milestone anniversary year. For the archivist, preserving Pennsylvania Hospital’s history ‘never gets old’ May 06, 2026 Stacey Peeples oversees the archives of the nation&rsquo;s first chartered hospital, home to a nearly three-hundred-year collection of medical artifacts. Use arrow keys to view news feed Links AAMC AMA Notable PSOM Alumni Professionalism Portal PSOM Data and Facts UPenn Course Catalog UPHS Intranet &copy; The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania | Site best viewed in a supported browser . | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help | Privacy Policy | Site Design: PMACS Web Team. | Sitemap Back to Top