Drexel University College of Medicine Skip to main content For a better experience, click the icon above to turn off Compatibility Mode, which is only for viewing older websites. College of Medicine Faculty and Staff Alumni Make a Gift Site Home Drexel University College of Medicine Main Sections Academics MD Program Graduate School Postdoctoral Affairs Dual Degree Programs Leadership & Professional Development Continuing Education A-Z Program Listing Admissions Our Faculty Research Featured Laboratories Featured Research Facilities Research Events News & Announcements Funding Opportunities Student Research Opportunities Research Office Electronic Resources for Researchers DUCOM Research Sharepoint Site Clinical Research Clinical Trials Student Life Overview Medical Student Affairs Graduate Student Association Inclusive Excellence Activities & Clubs Housing & Dining Health & Wellness Mentoring & Advising Community Engagement Student Services Resources for Prospective Students Information for International Graduate Students Community Engagement Get Involved HOP Clinics Educational Programs Lynn Yeakel Institute for Women's Health and Leadership Patient Care Outreach News & Events News News Archive Student Accomplishments & Accolades Media Guidelines Events Publications Class of 2026 Commencement Discovery Day Woman’s Medical College of Pennsylvania 175th Anniversary Celebration Match Day About Overview Message from the Dean Mission & Vision College Forward and Strategic Plan 2030 - Evolution and Impact Community Health and Inclusive Excellence Departments, Centers, Institutes and Offices Campuses Video Campus Tours Affiliated Hospitals Libraries History Employment Opportunities Directions & Maps Contact Information Collaborative Education in University City The Health Sciences Building is a state-of-the-art facility that brings together Drexel’s health-related fields of study in one modern space. In medical and graduation education, collaboration and innovation inspires our students, educators, providers and researchers to transform science, health care and service in our communities. Learn More Drexel University College of Medicine at Tower Health Our four-year regional medical campus offers medical students an immersive learning experience with outstanding clinical training at Tower Health’s Reading Hospital. Learn more Our Commitment to Community Recruiting and supporting faculty, staff and students from all walks of life improves the academic experience and creates more empathetic physicians, scientists and health care professionals. Learn more A History of Innovation Drexel University College of Medicine's education of women and minorities was considered innovative in the 1800s. Today, our innovation includes exploring technological advances in medicine, while remembering that behind each disease is a person who deserves compassion and respect. Learn more Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences and Professional Studies The Graduate School's academic programs emphasize real-world experience. Our students are mentored by and work in partnership with world-renowned faculty, and our programs leverage the strength of the College of Medicine and the Drexel colleges of Engineering, Arts and Sciences, Dornsife School of Public Health, Close School of Entrepreneurship, Thomas R. Kline School of Law, Westphal College of Media Arts and Design, and LeBow College of Business. Learn More St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, a partnership of Drexel University and Tower Health, is a 188-bed facility that provides exceptional care to children from throughout the Greater Philadelphia area and around the world. Learn More Why Choose Drexel University College of Medicine? Commitment to Community Through the Office of Engaged Humanities and Health Advocacy (OEHHA), previously the Office of Community Engagement, meaningful community service and reflective learning prepares medical students to understand socioeconomic determinants of health, better care for the most vulnerable members of our community and become community-responsive physicians. Learn More Research Opportunities The Office of Research and Innovation at the College of Medicine serves to support clinical and basic research activities, works with departments and interdisciplinary programs to develop and implement research, facilitate translational research, and promote mentoring to advance the training of physicians/scientists. Learn More It&rsquo;s in Our DNA The desire to heal is at the core of Drexel University College of Medicine. As leaders, collaborators, and innovators, we nurture the doctor within to serve the community beyond. By fostering compassion and integrity, you&rsquo;ll be trained to empower and educate, respect and respond, and above all, hear and heal patients. Learn More Your Health. Our Care. Drexel Medicine, the clinical practice group of the College of Medicine, fulfills its missions of exceptional, compassionate patient care, medical education and research. Drexel Medicine is committed to care for the health of our community and students. LEARN MORE WHY INCLUSIVE EXCELLENCE MATTERS At Drexel University College of Medicine, having a range of experiences, perspectives and inclusive representation is core to who we are. Our students learn to address health inequities in the classroom, clinical spaces and in communities. LEARN MORE News & Events Revolutionary Biochemist and Nobel Laureate Katalin Karik&oacute; to Address Drexel College of Medicine Class of 2026 During Commencement Katalin Karik&oacute;, PhD, co-inventor on mRNA-related applications of non-immunogenic, nucleoside-modified RNA for vaccines and therapies, including the FDA-approved COVID-19 mRNA vaccines by BioNTech/Pfizer and Moderna, will address the Drexel University College of Medicine class of 2026 during its commencement on May 14. Read More Researchers Identify Novel Vulnerability in Breast Cancer Brain Metastases Researchers from Drexel University&rsquo;s College of Medicine have identified a critical metabolic vulnerability in breast cancer that has spread to the brain, offering a promising new therapeutic target for a disease with few effective treatment options. Read More Drexel&rsquo;s College of Medicine Plans to Develop Three-Year MD Program In an effort to tailor medical education for learners seeking a more efficient pathway to a medical doctor (MD) degree, Drexel University&rsquo;s College of Medicine is planning a three-year degree program that aims to enroll its first cohort in the 2028-2029 academic year. The college will maintain its traditional four-year MD program. Read More A New Play Brings Drexel University College of Medicine&rsquo;s History to Life This spring, People&rsquo;s Light and Theatre Company in Malvern, Pennsylvania, will premiere The Woman Question, a new play that will bring the voices of pioneering women in medicine and the legacy of Woman&rsquo;s Medical College of Pennsylvania (WMCP) to center stage. Read More Quick Links Contact Us Corporate Compliance & Privacy Culture and Community Drexel Connect Drexel Medicine Make a Gift WebCampus The Legacy Center Archives & Special Collections COVID 19 Safety and Resources A-Z Index For Media Careers Privacy & Legal Contact Directions & Maps Emergency Information Follow College of Medicine: Facebook Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Drexel University, College of Medicine, 60 N. 36th Street, Philadelphia, PA 19104, 215.991.8202 , &copy; All Rights Reserved