Observers & Visiting Scientists | McGovern Medical School Skip to main content Directory Webmail UTHealth Houston Office of Graduate Medical Education Toggle Navigation General Information Trainees Program Directors Program Coordinators Program Guide Resource Hub New Innovations Search Press enter to search this website Home Trainees Visiting Trainees Observers & Visiting Scientists In this section Visiting Trainees Observers & Visiting Scientists Observers & Visiting Scientists NOTE: Observers, Visiting Medical Students, or Visiting Scholars are not processed through the GME Office. Please contact: Office of Admissions and Student Affairs or the Visiting Scholars Program (VSP) for additional information. UTHealth welcomes visiting colleagues and students (minimum 16 years old) from across the United States and around the world for research and educational collaboration, observation, and study. A Visitor is an individual who, though uncompensated by UTHealth, is given access to UTHealth property, facilities and/or information systems, at the discretion of UTHealth, for a specific period of time for collaborative or educational purposes. Visitors may not perform any patient care. Visitors are not considered employees, and are not entitled to wages or benefits. To apply for one of the visitor categories listed below, the Applicant must identify a Faculty Sponsor at UTHealth . An initial email of request should be sent to the department indicating your request to observer, the dates and the faculty sponsor. After approval by the faculty sponsor, the observer is required to complete the application and return it with all required documents to the program coordinator’s office. Once all paperwork has been received, the application will be submitted to the Office of Global Initiatives for review and approval. After approval has been received, the applicant will receive an email notification of the next steps. OBSERVER Individuals who hold a high school or higher degree with an interest in a health care related field and are seeking to observe (i.e. only to shadow, watch, listen and learn; no hands-on activities allowed) UTHealth Houston including UT Physicians clinics. Observers cannot provide clinical care, cannot perform any patient care, and cannot participate in or perform research, data collection or any other hands-on activities. Limited to two months in any one division/department. Must be at least 18 years old on the start date. Fee*: $100.00 USD for U.S. citizen/U.S. permanent resident and $775.00 USD for Foreign nationals (non-U.S. citizens/non-U.S. permanent resident) The Office of EVPCAO requires at least eight (8) weeks to review and process applications. Applications must be typed All fields completed Proposed dates: no past dates, start date in a reasonable timeframe All required documents must be included with the application Review process will be delayed if the application is incomplete This process applies to five categories of visitors. Observers Pre-Baccalaureate Trainees Professional Trainees Visiting Student Trainees Visiting Scientists Please visit the website below for additional information and the application: https://www.uth.edu/evpara/otvs/ Office of Graduate Medical Education at McGovern Medical School Mailing Address: McGovern Medical School at UTHealth Office of Graduate Medical Education 6431 Fannin, Suite JJL 310 Houston TX 77030-1503 Voice – 713-500-5151 Fax – 713-486-9534 GME General Email – [email&#160;protected] McGovern Medical School Facebook Page McGovern Medical School X Page McGovern Medical School Instagram Page McGovern Medical School YouTube Page McGovern Medical School LinkedIn Page Accessibility Academic Catalog Campus Carry Careers HUB Program Institutional Resume Open Records Report Fraud, Waste and Abuse Report Sexual Misconduct Submit Site Policies &#038; Required Links State of Texas Statewide Search Texas Homeland Security Texas Veterans Portal TMC Library UT System Contact UTHealth Houston Contact McGovern Medical School &copy; Copyright 2008-Present | The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston (UTHealth Houston)