MD Program | Carver College of Medicine | The University of Iowa Skip to main content The University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine MD Program Search Submit Search Search Site Main Navigation About the Program Mission & Vision Contact Us Faculty and Staff Directory Learning Communities Bean Community Boulware Community Flocks Community McCowen Community Learning Community FAQ Peer Mentoring Program Program Events Match Day White Coat Ceremony MD Commencement / Ceremony Admissions Life in Iowa City Application Process Combined Degree Programs Requirements Dates & Deadlines Selection Process Letters of Recommendation Interview FAQ Current Class Profile Technical Standards Admitted Students Becoming A Physician Curriculum MD Curriculum Curriculum Overview Current Student Resources Combined Degree Programs MD/MBA MD/MPH MD/PhD MD/JD Distinction Tracks Global Health Distinction Track Health Care Delivery Science, Management and Policy Distinction Humanities Distinction Track Research Distinction Track Service Distinction Track Teaching Distinction Track Educational Opportunities CCOM Rural Iowa Scholars Program (CRISP) Community Health Outreach Clinical Skills Assessment Program Global Health Des Moines Campus Introduction to Medical Education at Iowa Financial Aid Application Requirements Disbursement Requirements Tuition and Cost of Attendance Sources of Financial Aid Grants and Scholarships Federal Loans Collegiate Loans Emergency Short-Term Loans M4 Residency Search Loans Private Scholarship Sources Physician Assistants Information CCOMmon Cents Frequently Asked Questions Student and Program Resources Administration Educator&#039;s Handbook Councils and Committees Registrar Student Services Departmental Services Alumni Services USMLE Financial Services Academic Support and Tutoring Career Advising Specialty Specific Faculty Advisor (SSFA) Understanding ERAS Career Advising Fairs Career Connection Career Mentor Request Clinical Department Career Information Resources Career Development Mentoring at CCOM Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society Gold Humanism Honor Society Medical Student Performance Evaluation The Student Handbook Visiting Students Opportunities for Growth Research Opportunities Student Organizations Writing and Humanities Program Community Service Learning Communities Student Counseling MSCC Wellness Resources Programs and Workshops Resources and Referral Information Personal Counseling MSCC Staff Disability & Reasonable Accommodations Crisis and Emergency Procedures Guide for Faculty and Staff Well-Being and Belonging: Helpful Links Introduction to Medical Education at Iowa Meeting Basic Needs Home The Roy. J. and Lucille A. Carver College of Medicine MD Program Admissions Student Handbook Current Student Resources An LCME Accredited Medical School Students at the Carver College of Medicine are educated in an atmosphere of scholarship, humanism, and mutual respect, as well as fostering the ability to manage the changing scientific and technological information so necessary in today's world. More than 850 full-time faculty teach more than 600 medical students and more than 200 associated medical sciences students. Faculty also teach basic science classes to more than 5,000 undergraduate students from other UI colleges. In addition, more than 1,500 residents, fellows, and graduate students are trained in a range of specialties and sub-specialties. The Carver College of Medicine is the only LCME-accredited allopathic medical school in the state of Iowa. For questions not answered by the material available on the LCME website, please contact the LCME Secretariat at lcme@aamc.org . Student Affairs and Curriculum The people who manage the curriculum and the student affairs staff and faculty work together, which means both aspects of med student life work together. Who we are Medical Student Research Program Our Medical Student Research Program offers students close-up experience with how biomedical discoveries are made. Research Program Medical Student Counseling Center Our Medical Student Counseling Center is nearby to assist students with their mental health and academic health. From tutors to therapy, they do it all. Counseling resources Distinction Tracks Our Distinction Tracks allow students to explore interests beyond the basic science and clinical knowledge domains. Learn More Learning Communities Our Learning Communities enhance the activities, opportunities, and relationships students will encounter beyond the formal curriculum. Learning Communities Preclinical Semesters Fast track your way hands-on clinical training. Complete your Preclinical work in 3 semesters. Preclinical Semesters I want to be a physician and to work with Iowans. The most freeing and exciting thing for me is knowing that this world-class education I’m about to receive and all the things I get to participate in are built around the fact that I’m just meant to learn. Daniel X. Haws Current MD student | Read Daniel's story About Our Students Class Profile Growing up in rural Iowa played a significant role in shaping my desire to learn more about rural medicine with the hope to one day return to a rural community like the one I grew up in and help make a difference there. Bailey VandeLune 2026 MD candidate | Read Bailey’s story Explore the MD Curriculum From the first day to the last, our curriculum is designed to prepare you for today&#039;s medical knowledge, and for what&#039;s to come. Curriculum Watch: How to Study in Medical School With so much to learn, you&#039;ll need a new way to learn. Watch this four-part video series to level up your study techniques. Your patients will thank you! Watch You can spend a lot of time studying in medical school, but I think there's more enrichment from doing activities with your peers. Med school teaches you the hard science, and that is a necessary portion, but I think what I learned is the way you are with humans is going to take you so much further.” Chandler Brown 2025 MD graduate | Read Chandler's story What stood out to me about the University of Iowa for medical school was the rural program. Participating in CRISP allowed me to have the opportunity to connect with rural providers in different areas of the state and allowed me to see the different barriers patients in these areas experience. After residency, I see myself in a rural community in Iowa similar to the one that I grew up in. Ashley Hurd-Jackson 2025 MD graduate | Read Ashley's story The University of Iowa MD Program Carver College of Medicine 375 Newton Road 1216 Medical Education Research Facility Iowa City, IA 52242 Phone: 319-335-6707 Report an issue with this page Admin Login © 2026 The University of Iowa Privacy Notice UI Nondiscrimination Statement Accessibility