Homepage - SBH Health System Skip to Content Español 2026 Gala Support Locations Find a Doctor Search Search Patient Login Services & Care Browse Our Services Breast Health Cardiology Obstetrics and Gynecology (OB-GYN) Podiatry Primary Care Radiology Urology Browse Our Locations SBH Ambulatory Care Center SBH Health & Wellness Center SBH Behavioral Health SBH Methadone Maintenance Treatment Pathways SBH Hemodialysis Center Senior Health Center Patients & Visitors Patient & Visitor Guide Electronic Request for Records Patient Resources Financial Services Pay a Bill Portal Pricing Information Accepted Insurances Community Wellness Health and Wellness Center HealthPlex Fitness Center SBH Center for Culinary Medicine and Teaching Kitchen Services and Programs Health and Wellness Clinical Care SBH Wellness Programs About SBH Find a Doctor Make an Appointment On this page: On This Page A hospital system committed to the health & wellness of the Bronx SBH has delivered compassionate healthcare to the Bronx for nearly 160 years. Today, we continue to provide the highest-quality care and trusted services to everyone in the community. Learn About SBH Our Services Support & Resources Find a Doctor Request Records Pay Bill Online Make an Appointment Specialty Care Your hospital for expert specialty care in the Bronx We’re much more than an ER. You’ll find a full range of comprehensive specialty care services at SBH. Trusted pediatric care for every child Children deserve our very best. And so do you as their parent or caregiver. That’s why SBH is a Level 3 NCQA designated Medical Home. That means you don’t just get to see a doctor, you have 24/7 access to our pediatricians. Call after hours. Or on weekends. You’ll get a return call from our on-call pediatrician. We not only care for your children when they are sick, we help you keep them healthy with proper nutrition and exercise and, when necessary, helping you find services and resources in the community. Visit Pediatric Care Clinical excellence in specialty care At SBH, we treat the whole person. Here’s a look at some of the many services we provide. Browse All SBH Services Addiction Medicine Asthma, Allergy & Immunology Anesthesia Breast Health Cancer Services Cardiology (Heart) Dentistry & Oral Surgery Dermatology Diabetes / Endocrine Disorders Ear, Nose and Throat Emergency Care Primary Care Liver Care Orthopedics Pain Medicine Questions? We are here for support. Contact us for questions about your care, our services, and more. (718) 960 9000 Contact Us Welcome to the SBH Health & Wellness Center We’re helping every member of the community live the healthiest life they possibly can. SBH Health & Wellness Center Clinical Care Our healthcare providers are among the most highly trained in the country, and they’re passionate about improving and protecting the long-term health of Bronx communities. More About Clinical Care Wellness Program We partner with community groups and state and federal organizations to bring you high quality fruits, vegetables, and grains. More About Wellness Programs Healthplex Fitness Center Explore our state-of-the-art fitness center dedicated to helping you improve your health through fun, engaging workout options. Explore the Fitness Center Culinary Medicine & Teaching Kitchen Our culinary and nutrition experts can share new, healthy twists on your favorite recipes, and teach you how to prepare healthy meals for you and your family. Visit the Teaching Kitchen We are your local Bronx hospital and always have been SBH is a pillar in the Bronx community. We have offices, locations, and facilities in the Bronx to serve every member of the community. Browse All Locations Helpful Quick Actions Find a Doctor Make an Appointment Patient Login SBH Locations Contact SBH Careers More About SBH Health & Wellness Center About SBH Community Engagement Support 2026 Gala SBH Healthy Newsletter Employee & Professional Resources Healthcare Professionals SBH Referral Services Residency Programs Medical Library SBH Employee Outlook Vendormate Healthstream Compliance Compliance Health Equity Assessment 2025 Legal HIPAA Patient Rights Anti-Discrimination Statement Accessibility Statement Hospital Visitation Guidelines (PDF) Price Transparency Surprise Medical Bills &copy; 2026 SBH Health System. All rights reserved. Translate from to: Select a Language English French Spanish