Graduate Medical Education (GME) | Spencer Fox Eccles School of Medicine | University of Utah Health Skip to main content Spencer Fox Eccles School of Medicine Search Search Menu Home Graduate Medical Education (GME) Close Spencer Fox Eccles School of Medicine GME Department of GME About Sub Menu Contact Us Staff Directory Newsletter Trainee Resources Programs Sub Menu Residency Fellowship MedHub Program Coordinator/Manager Advocacy Committee (PCMAC) Policies Initiatives Sub Menu Educational Development Ideals R.E.T.U.R.N. Verifications Wellness Sub Menu How Are You? Mindfulness Pausing Practices Resources Wellness Elective Rotation Mistreatment Reporting Welcome to GME! The GME office welcomes our residents and fellows (trainees) to the University of Utah Health! We value our trainees and are committed to helping you be successful. Contact the GME Office with any questions or concerns at gme@hsc.utah.edu or 801-581-2401. GME Data Request Form Vision To train the next generation of compassionate, well-balanced healthcare professionals to meet the evolving needs of our communities. Mission We believe that exceptional healthcare delivery is determined by the educational culture of the institutions at which physicians train. We support our programs and trainees to excel in patient care, academic endeavors, and personal well-being. We partner with stakeholders to maintain and exceed accreditation standards and champion programmatic innovations in order to meet the physician workforce needs of our communities. Values We aspire to excellence and innovation for our people and systems, never compromising our core principles: Development Compassion Collaboration Inclusion Education & Support Statement The Office of Graduate Medical Education commits to the education and support of our faculty, fellows, residents and staff across age, gender-identity-expression, race, ethnicity, country and region of origin, culture, socio-economic status, political belief, spiritual/religious belief or ideology, ability, and sexual orientation. Through this commitment we aim to: Foster an impartial and psychologically safe learning environment. Provide resources for residents, fellows, faculty and staff to feel included and represented through training, educational development and discourse. Support the creation of a physician workforce to produce professionals that are representative of the whole community and can address health needs across the state and the nation. EXPLORE TRAINEE RESOURCES RESIDENCY PROGRAMS FELLOWSHIP PROGRAMS WELLNESS GME INITIATIVES POLICIES Why Utah? In Utah you can truly have it all. Salt Lake City and the surrounding areas offer diverse neighborhoods, great schools, arts and entertainment, and endless possibilities for sports and recreation. Breathtaking beauty, remarkable facilities, and visionary leadership are just a few of the reasons we thought of before coming up with a different question: Why not Utah? Learn More About Living in Utah Your browser does not support HTML5 video. School of Medicine About Us Alumni & Giving Departments & Divisions Graduate Medical Education Map & Directions Non-Discrimination Policy Office of Academic Culture and Community U of U Health About U of U Health Community Digital Accessibility Disclaimer Health Sciences Workforce Excellence Institutional Research Jobs Patient Care Schools & Colleges 127 S 500 E, Suite 220 Salt Lake City, Utah 84102 801-581-2401 Copyright © 2026 University of Utah Health