Postdocs Innovators, Practitioners, Mentors, and Scholars | Postdoctoral Affairs Skip to main content University of California San Francisco UCSF Health Search UCSF About UCSF Give to UCSF Search Main navigation Prospective Postdocs Postdoc Statistics Postdoc Openings at UCSF Community Postdoc Slam National Postdoc Appreciation Week Listservs for Postdocs Alumni Mentoring Awards Research Making an Individual Development Plan Fund Your Research Lab Safety UCSF Postdoc Travel Award Resources Orientations to UCSF for New or Continuing Postdocs Find My HR Rep HR Support Benefits Plan Leaves of Absence Taxes Retirement Career Wellness Housing About Appointments Chequeta D. Allen Bio History Leadership Fellows Podcast Postdocs Innovators, Practitioners, Mentors, and Scholars Celebrating Mentorship Congratulations to the postdoc and grad student recipients of the 2026 Dean's Awards for Excellence in Mentoring! learn more Congrats, Postdoc Slammers! Ten postdocs brought their engaging 3-minute research stories to the Sept. 17 event. Three walked away with cash prizes and bragging rights. read about the event Where are you on the postdoc timeline? There are some things you should be doing at different stages of your training. Make a plan Here are some ways that the UCSF Office of Postdoctoral Affairs puts postdocs in the spotlight: Year-round community-building events and career development activities Transparency . Postdoc demographics, time in postdoc, and career outcomes of UCSF postdoc alumni Annual Postdoc Appreciation Week in the third week of September Postdoc Slam : an annual competition to highlight postdoctoral scholarship at UCSF and help postdocs hone their communications skills ► Are you looking for a postdoc appointment at UCSF? See advice for finding a lab and mentor . ► Already started, but don't know where you're headed? Visit the postdoc timeline for advice on what you should be doing at various stages in your postdoc. ► NEW: View resources for postdoc job opportunities . Are you a new postdoc at UCSF? Sign up for an orientation to UCSF for New Postdocs. Orientations occur monthly and cover topics including; human resources, research grants, careers, and an UAW presentation! Learn more and register Events See more News December 18, 2025 Ten UCSF Postdocs Receive $2,500 Travel Grants September 24, 2025 Postdoc Slam 2025 is a Wrap! August 26, 2025 Meet the 2025 Postdoc Slam Finalists! June 11, 2025 Two UCSF Postdocs to Attend Annual Lindau Nobel Meeting More news Postdoctoral Affairs Graduate Education and Postdoctoral Affairs 1675 Owens Street, Suite 310 Campus Box 0523 San Francisco, CA 94143 email: [email&#160;protected] Meet with an advisor one on one: Schedule an Appointment Search for postdoc and other opportunities: Opportunities About Events News Listservs Alumni Statistics Contact Us Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use A-Z Website List &copy; 2026 The Regents of the University of California