Academic Visitor Program for Health Professionals & Students Skip to main content Giving | Careers | Why Choose HSS | MyHSS Sign In Find a Doctor Locations Patient Care Health Library Research & Education Menu 1.212.606.1000 Make an Appointment Find a Doctor Locations Patient Care Health Library Research & Education Giving Careers Why Choose HSS MyHSS Sign In 1.212.606.1000 Make an Appointment Academic Visitor Program The Academic Visitor Program coordinates observerships at Hospital for Special Surgery for physicians, students, and allied health care professionals. Our mission is to enhance Academic Visitors' knowledge and understanding of musculoskeletal health and high-quality patient care. Observerships are informal, non-accredited visits, designed for individuals wishing to observe surgical and clinical care at HSS. Observerships range from one day to two months and are largely structured according to the desires of the visitor and hosting physician. The Academic Visitor Program coordinates observerships at HSS for clinicians, students and allied healthcare professionals. It is open to all persons inside or outside of the United States who: Are 18 years of age or older. Can provide proof of current COVID-19 and influenza vaccination, including medical documents outlined in the health guidelines. Who have found a confirmed HSS host and have a serious interest in musculoskeletal health. The Academic Visitor Program allows participants to: Network with top-tier professionals in the field of musculoskeletal health. Observe state-of the-art operating room technology and patient care settings. Access to Kim Barrett Memorial Library (Monday through Friday from 9:00 am &ndash; 5:00 pm) for research, photocopy, computer/workstation, CDs, DVDs, periodicals, journals Attend and use a variety of onsite professional education activities and facilities, including: Grand Rounds Journal Club Conferences: Adult Reconstruction & Joint Replacement, Anesthesiology, Foot & Ankle, Hand & Upper Extremity, Limb Lengthening & Complex Reconstruction, Metabolic Bone, Neurology, New York Bone Pathology, Pediatric Orthopaedics, Perioperative Medicine, Physiatry, Radiology & Imaging, Rheumatic Diseases, Rheumatology, Spine, Surgical Arthritis. Continuing Education Programs Visiting Professional Lecture Series Due to a growing number of requests, applications are only accepted from individuals with a confirmed HSS host. To apply to the Academic Visitor Program, first secure a host. Have your host complete, sign, and return the host form to the Education Institute. When we receive your approved host form, an application will be emailed to you. Please continue to the Academic Visitor Program Guidelines page for more information. Back to Education Institute Make an Appointment at HSS Connect With Us Share Your Story Read Articles from Move Better Feel Better Subscribe to our eNewsletters Make a Donation Learn More About HSS Newsroom Community Benefit HSS Store Contact Us Information For Patients and Visitors Medical Professionals Job Seekers Employers Vendors HSS Staff Policies HSS Patient Policies and Guidelines Website Terms of Use Website/App Privacy Policy &copy; 2026 Hospital for Special Surgery. 535 East 70th Street, New York, NY 10021 Hospital for Special Surgery, HSS and the HSS logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Hospital for Special Surgery in the United States and other countries. &uarr; Close