Ochsner International Observership Program | Ochsner Health Ochsner Education Find a Doctor Find a Location Give Now Pay a Bill Check Symptoms Login About About Ochsner Ochsner Health is a system that delivers health to the people of Louisiana, Mississippi and the Gulf South with a mission to Serve, Heal, Lead, Educate and Innovate. Learn More About Ochsner Mission & Vision History Regions Annual Report News & Media Ochsner Health Network Contact Us Community Purpose in Action Community Health Needs Assessment Community Benefit Report Serving Our Schools Community Service and Partnerships Outreach by Region Calendar of Events Health Resources COVID-19 Information All Health Resources Wellness Marketplace Healthy State To Your Health Blog Golden Opportunity Patients & Visitors Patients & Visitors Thank you for choosing Ochsner Health for your care. We are committed to making an ongoing difference in the health of our communities. Learn More I need to... Check Symptoms Check Symptoms Find a Doctor Find a Location Schedule an Appt. Schedule an Appointment Find a Specialty Find a Specialty or Treatment Pay a Bill Personalize My Content Personalize Personalize My Content Services & Resources Patient Services Visitor Policy Billing & Financial Services Insurance Information Language and Translation Services Share Your Story Read Patient Stories MyOchsner About MyOchsner How to Use MyOchsner Patient Login New Patient? Sign Up Specialties & Treatments Specialties & Treatments Connect to care at Ochsner. Click on a featured specialty on the list or search for a specialty. All Specialties Featured Specialties Primary Care (Internal Medicine) Urgent Care Services Connected Anywhere Virtual Visits Women&#039;s Health Men&#039;s Health Pediatrics Digital Medicine ER Locations Pharmacy & Wellness Psychiatry & Behavioral Health Smoking Cessation Services Heart & Vascular Cancer Care Neuroscience Organ Transplants Orthopedics Sports Medicine Therapy & Wellness Optical Shops Digestive Disorders Urology Research & Education Research & Education Ochsner is committed to a clinically-integrated research program with the ultimate goal of improving the health and wellness of our patients and communities. And as the largest academic medical center in Louisiana, we are training the next generation of healthcare professionals to be leaders who can meet evolving healthcare challenges. All Research All Education Research Clinical Research Translational Research Outcomes Research Nursing Research Research Opportunities Investigator-Initiated Research Resources BioDesign Lab Ochsner-Xavier Institute for Health Equity and Research Education Browse All Programs UQ-Ochsner Clinical School Clinical Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Medical Library Publishing Careers Find the Career for You Careers at Ochsner Why Work Here Search Jobs Benefits Locations Career Paths Physicians Nursing Allied Health Non-Medical Professional Management & Leadership Fellowships, Internships & Residencies Advanced Practice Providers Search Search Login Check Symptoms Find a Doctor Find a Location Give Now Pay a Bill About Ochsner Health is a system that delivers health to the people of Louisiana, Mississippi and the Gulf South with a mission to Serve, Heal, Lead, Educate and Innovate. Learn More About Ochsner Mission & Vision History Regions Annual Report News & Media Ochsner Health Network Contact Us Community Purpose in Action Community Health Needs Assessment Community Benefit Report Serving Our Schools Community Service and Partnerships Outreach by Region Calendar of Events Health Resources COVID-19 Information All Health Resources Wellness Marketplace Healthy State To Your Health Blog Golden Opportunity Patients & Visitors Thank you for choosing Ochsner Health for your care. We are committed to making an ongoing difference in the health of our communities. Learn More I need to... Check Symptoms Check Symptoms Find a Doctor Find a Location Schedule an Appt. Schedule an Appointment Find a Specialty Find a Specialty or Treatment Pay a Bill Personalize My Content Personalize Personalize My Content Services & Resources Patient Services Visitor Policy Billing & Financial Services Insurance Information Language and Translation Services Share Your Story Read Patient Stories MyOchsner About MyOchsner How to Use MyOchsner Patient Login New Patient? Sign Up Specialties & Treatments Connect to care at Ochsner. Click on a featured specialty on the list or search for a specialty. All Specialties Featured Specialties Primary Care (Internal Medicine) Urgent Care Services Connected Anywhere Virtual Visits Women&#039;s Health Men&#039;s Health Pediatrics Digital Medicine ER Locations Pharmacy & Wellness Psychiatry & Behavioral Health Smoking Cessation Services Heart & Vascular Cancer Care Neuroscience Organ Transplants Orthopedics Sports Medicine Therapy & Wellness Optical Shops Digestive Disorders Urology Research & Education Ochsner is committed to a clinically-integrated research program with the ultimate goal of improving the health and wellness of our patients and communities. And as the largest academic medical center in Louisiana, we are training the next generation of healthcare professionals to be leaders who can meet evolving healthcare challenges. All Research All Education Research Clinical Research Translational Research Outcomes Research Nursing Research Research Opportunities Investigator-Initiated Research Resources BioDesign Lab Ochsner-Xavier Institute for Health Equity and Research Education Browse All Programs UQ-Ochsner Clinical School Clinical Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Medical Library Publishing Careers Find the Career for You Careers at Ochsner Why Work Here Search Jobs Benefits Locations Career Paths Physicians Nursing Allied Health Non-Medical Professional Management & Leadership Fellowships, Internships & Residencies Advanced Practice Providers Medical Professionals Shop Call: 1-866-624-7637 Education Menu Browse All Programs XOCOM UQ-OCS Clinical Medical Education Clinical Medical Education Clinical Education Xavier Partnership Loyola - BS, Nursing Clinical Simulation Global Health Electives - Lafayette Electives - New Orleans Pastoral Medical Physics Pharmacy Psychology Sports Medicine Therapy & Wellness Graduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Lafayette Region New Orleans Region Continuing Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Download CME Certificate and Transcript Regularly Scheduled Series Apply for CME Credit The Ochsner Journal Medical Library Medical Library About Archives and Special Collections Business and Leader Resources Clinical Practice Guidelines Databases and Web Resources Frequently Asked Questions ILLiad | Document Delivery Literature Search Request Mobile and Remote Access Search Publishing Ochsner International Observership Program Clinical Medical Education Global Health Is Local Health The Office of International Academics (OI) at Ochsner ONLY accepts those applicants that are referred by an Ochnser Faculty Provider. The Ochsner Health System welcomes only FACULTY SPONSORED International Observer Physicians from across the world. The Observership program is an educational, shadowing experience that enables participants to watch procedures and surgeries, attend patient rounds and teaching conferences, and have full access to Ochsner’s medical library system. All observers are under direct supervision of an Ochsner sponsoring physician in the department where he/she will be completing an observership. Federal regulations prevent observers from having patient care responsibilities or involvement in any form of volunteer research. Requirements The following is required for acceptance and review of application: The Office of International Academics (OI) at Ochsner ONLY accepts those applicants that are referred by an Ochnser Faculty Provider . The Ochsner Health System welcomes only FACULTY SPONSORED International Observer Physicians from across the world. Clinical Observer must have a faculty sponsor at the Ochsner Health System who agrees to oversee the period of visitation and who will be responsible for guiding and monitoring the training of the individual. Faculty will not accept "cold call" requests. Clinical Observer must have the sponsorship of a foreign academic institution, agency, foreign government, or have adequate evidence of financial support. International medical students, residents, or fellows (trainees) enrolled in any training program who are actively supported for this observership by their training institution and who will be returning to that institution after the observership International physicians who are employed in their profession and care for critically ill patients and who will be returning to that position immediately following observership Must be fluent in the English language. Must complete an Observership Application. A request for an observership does not guarantee a slot will be available. The APPLICATION FORM will be sent out to the applicant and the sponsor by the International Program Coordinator Applications will not be considered until all documents require are sent. The maximum duration of this observership is 90 days with Ochsner Faculty authorization. No extensions are allowed. All applicants are required to submit a $500 non-refundable processing fee. Applicant has to apply within a minimum of ninety (90) days before requested start date. A request for an observership does not guarantee a slot will be available. In addition, Ochsner Health System may delay the start, terminate early, or cancel an observership at any time at its sole discretion. Ochsner Health System maintains the right to remove an observer from assignment after it has been determined by Ochsner healthcare sponsor provider that such removal is in the best interest of Ochsner and/or its patients and their families. Ochsner shall have the right at any time to take whatever action it deems necessary, including the barring of an observer from its premises, in order to ensure the safety and welfare of its patients and to maintain the operation of its facilities free from disruption. The visiting physician may NOT Practice hands-on patient care Write in patient’s chart Answer patient’s questions Receive credit towards any board’s clinical requirements. Participation of a visiting physician includes Attending morning rounds Observing activities in labs, clinics and hospitals Participating in conferences, seminars and didactic programs Use of the Medical Library resources. Global Health Is Local Health UQ-OCS Global Health Ochsner International Student Program Ochsner International Observership Program Schedule An Appointment: 1-866-624-7637 Where Health Leads Follow us: Facebook Follow Ochsner Health on Facebook LinkedIn Visit Ochsner Health's LinkedIn page Instagram Follow Ochsner Health on Instagram YouTube Subscribe to Ochsner Health on YouTube TikTok Follow Ochsner Health on TikTok Free health and wellness newsletters, delivered straight to your inbox Sign Up for our newsletters Patients & Visitors Billing & Financial Services Price Transparency Insurance Information International Patients Visitor Policy Request Medical Records Share Your Story Read Patient Stories Medical Professionals Transfer a Patient Refer a Patient Health Resources To Your Health Blog Golden Opportunity Wellness Marketplace Healthy State Job Seekers Career Paths Benefits Open Positions Employees Webmail WorkSpaceAir Workday Employers Medicare Advantage Plans Community Purpose in Action Community Health Needs Assessment Community Benefit Report Serving Our Schools Community Service and Partnerships Outreach by Region Calendar of Events Education Browse All Programs UQ-Ochsner Clinical School Clinical Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Medical Library Publishing Research Clinical Research Translational Research Outcomes Research Nursing Research Research Opportunities Investigator-Initiated Research Resources BioDesign Lab Ochsner-Xavier Institute for Health Equity and Research Giving Donate Volunteer About Ochsner Mission & Vision History Regions Annual Report Accolades & Awards News & Media Alumni Ochsner Health Network Contact Us Shop O Bar Optical Shop Optical Shop Ochsner Fitness Center Brent House Hotel © Ochsner Health | Notice of Privacy Practices | Notice of Nondiscrimination and Accessibility | Terms of Use | Vendor Information Ochsner accepts all major insurances. Ochsner is a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization, founded on providing the best patient care, research and education. We are one of the country’s largest non-university based academic medical centers. Ochsner is an equal opportunity employer and all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin or ancestry, citizenship, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran status, disability or any other protected characteristic under applicable law. EpicMobile Tablet | EpicMobile Phone Personalize your content We'd love to know more about you so we can deliver the most relevant content. Which of the following best describes you? Patient Doctor Job Seeker Employee Student Medical Professional Caregiver / Family Member I'm just looking I'd prefer not to say