International Training Programs | USF Medicine International | Morsani College of Medicine | USF Health Skip to Main Content Education Research Patient Care News USF Give Now USF Medicine International Submit Search USF Medicine International About Us About Medicine International Faculty & Staff Program History In their words Education International Training Programs Scholarly Concentration Subspecialty training LEAD training Resources Travel Guidelines Collaborative Agreements International partners Contact Us Submit Search Quick Links Education Research Patient Care News USF Contribute USF Health Morsani College of Medicine USF Medicine International International Training Programs International Training Programs &#10094; &#10095; Overview of International Medical Trainee Observership The International Medical Trainee (IMT) observership provides international final-year medical students and graduates from non-affiliated institutions the opportunity to learn about the US healthcare system. These highly motivated medical trainees are able to translate what they learn about medical practice in the US to become better clinicians, educators, and health care leaders, thus improving the quality of healthcare globally. For an overview of our program, FAQ's and our current availability please review our Program Highlights . If your question is not answered please contact us via email at observerships@usf.edu . Who is Eligible? The process of acceptance is highly competitive and selective. Successful applicants must have either a letter of approval from their medical school and current transcript (final-year medical students) or completed, at a minimum, Step 1 of the USMLE (graduates). If you are interested in observing in Hospital Medicine, you are required to have completed your Step 2CK exam with a score of 240 or above. This is our only specialty with a Step 2CK score requirement. There are numerous specialties students can observe in, depending on the schedules and availability of doctors in that division/department. Those specialties include: Click to Expand Allergy and Immunology Cardiology Cardiothoracic Surgery Colorectal Surgery Dermatology Emergency Medicine Gastroenterology GI Surgery Hospital Medicine Infectious Disease Neurology Click to Expand Nephrology Neurosurgery Ophthalmology Pediatrics Pediatrics ICU Plastic Surgery Pulmonary Radiology Trauma and Acute Care Surgery Urology Vascular Surgery Click to Expand Application Cycles We are currently accepting applications for Fall '25! Our program follows a staggered application. Please review the below dates: Rotation Period Application Opens Application Deadline Notification Date September &ndash; December 2025 April 1, 2025 July 14, 2025 July 22, 2025 January &ndash; April 2026 August 1, 2025 October 1, 2025 October 15, 2025 May &ndash; August 2026 December 1, 2025 February 1, 2026 February 15, 2026 Click to Expand What This Means for You Applications are only accepted during the designated timeframes for each rotation. If an applicant is interested in a specific rotation, they must resubmit their application during that rotation&rsquo;s application window. No late applications will be accepted, so we kindly request that you plan ahead. All applicants will receive a decision by the notification date listed above. If accepted, you&rsquo;ll go through an onboarding period to complete all required documents, compliance steps, and credentials before your observership begins. How to Apply Please download the International Medical Trainee Observership Application Process for detailed information. Apply Now Click to Expand Affiliated Exchange Students Overview of Clinical Observership Program The Clinical Observership program is dedicated to providing innovative medical education for medical students from around the globe. Through this program, highly motivated medical students, whose universities have forged a collaborative agreement with the USF College of Medicine, are invited to participate in medical observerships and subsequently return to their countries to become clinicians, leaders, and educators in their medical fields. This program is integrated into USF Health's initiative to provide creative training and educational programs to all deserving individuals. Who is Eligible? Clinical observerships are offered to students who attend an affiliated university. Your university has to have a collaborative agreement with the USF College of Medicine in order to be eligible to participate. There are numerous specialties students can observe in, depending on the schedules and availability of doctors in that division/department. Some of the most recent include: Allergy and Immunology Cardiology Cardiothoracic Surgery Colorectal Surgery Dermatology Emergency Medicine Gastroenterology GI Surgery Hospital Medicine Infectious Disease Neurology Nephrology Neurosurgery Ophthalmology Pediatrics Pediatrics ICU Plastic Surgery Pulmonary Radiology Trauma and Acute Care Surgery Urology Vascular Surgery How to Register Make sure you attend one of the universities listed above Contact your school's representative to get permission for your desired dates Your school representative will email us approving your request We will then email you the application materials and get details to arrange for your observership Contact us For more information, please email: observerships@usf.edu . Click to Expand Access our previous observer's Photo Galley. Facebook Gallery Click to Expand USF Medicine International 17 Davis Blvd. Ste. 412 Tampa, FL 33606 GIVE Help build USF Health About USF Health Visit Tampa Bay Leadership Regulations & Policies Emergency & Safety Libraries Information Degrees Offered Patient Care Financial Aid Human Resources Professional Development International Programs Resources Current Students Prospective Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Accessibility Services Health Resources Copyright © 2026 , University of South Florida. All rights reserved. This website is maintained by USF Information Technology . Privacy Site Map Contact USF Visit USF Accessibility