Clinical Observership - Meded-Griffinhealth Skip to the content Search Meded-Griffinhealth Contact Us Griffin Hospital Department of Medical Education 130 Division Street Derby, CT 06418 (203) 732-7327 Menu Meded-Griffinhealth Home Residency Program Internal Medicine Categorical Internal Medicine Program Structure Preliminary Internal Medicine Program Structure Preventive Medicine Internal / Preventive Medicine Program Structure Categorical Preventive Medicine Advanced Preventive Medicine Program Structure Master of Public Health Residents Alumni Awards Benefits FAQs Application Process Faculty Clinical Observership Research Books & Chapters Peer Reviewed Publications (indexed) Peer Reviewed Publications (non-indexed) Oral Presentations Poster Presentations Photo Gallery Search for: Close search Close Menu Home Residency Program .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Internal Medicine .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Categorical Internal Medicine .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Program Structure Preliminary Internal Medicine .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Program Structure Preventive Medicine .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Internal / Preventive Medicine .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Program Structure Categorical Preventive Medicine Advanced Preventive Medicine .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Program Structure Master of Public Health Residents .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Alumni Awards Benefits FAQs Application Process Faculty Clinical Observership Research .sub-menu" data-toggle-type="slidetoggle" data-toggle-duration="250" aria-expanded="false"> Show sub menu Books & Chapters Peer Reviewed Publications (indexed) Peer Reviewed Publications (non-indexed) Oral Presentations Poster Presentations Photo Gallery Clinical Observership Clinical Observership Clinical Observership Program The application process remains open until all positions are filled for each calendar year. We accept new applications during this time only. We are closed for the month of July and will not accept applications for that month. Please refer to the table below for available rotations. Observership is granted to foreign medical school graduates for the duration of 1 month (4 WEEKS). Rotation Objectives To familiarize yourself with the U.S. medical system. To become proficient in presentation of history and physical examinations on daily rounds. To become proficient in ascertaining patients&#8217; acute symptoms and making a therapeutic plan. To learn to write daily progress notes. To learn how to interpret basic lab tests and radiology data such as blood, urine serum, X-rays, etc. Eligibility Criteria Foreign Medical Student Graduates: Must be a GRADUATE of a Medical School Must be ECFMG certified. Must have up to date immunization records including flu shot during flu season(Oct-March) and Covid-19 Vaccine including Covid-19 booster if applicable. No exceptions are made in fairness to all applicants. Applications A formal application shall be submitted to the Clinical Observership Program Committee for approval. Standardized applications such as an ERAS application is acceptable. If using an ERAS application, months for which the candidate is applying for should be indicated in the email. In the event that ERAS application is not available, a Common Application Form can be substituted. The following criteria is what is required to be submitted to the Committee for consideration of participation in the program: A completed application or ERAS application A cover letter detailing desired rotation Your C.V. At least one up-to-date letter of reference from a clinical supervisor or advisor, or an attending physician USMLE score reports including both Step 1 ( pass in first attempt ) & 2 ( minimum 230 in first attempt ). Step 3 is welcome Medical school diploma ECFMG certificate TOEFL score report (if available) Documentation of up-to-date immunization record ( please see details below ) Proof of health insurance coverage A recent photograph for identification Copy of passport and valid visa Application Submission An application is considered complete when all listed criteria is submitted. Your application will not be reviewed if missing any items. Formal start date is usually the first working day of a calendar month. Timing is at the discretion of the program coordinator and teaching service schedules. Approval Process Applications will be formally reviewed for each year. Each applicant must provide 3 different months they are available for the rotation. If all criteria is met, the applicant will be contacted via email if selected for one of the months requested. The Clinical Observership Program Committee will meet and review each application carefully. There are observership positions in each of the following areas: General Medicine (1) slot Neuro &#8211; Cardiac Telemetry (1) slot Flex Team &#8211; (1) slot Observership selection is based on the following criteria, where no single criteria can guarantee acceptance: USMLE board scores Letter of Reference Medical School Academic Performance Interest in Griffin Hospital Residency program and prospects of becoming a resident at Griffin Hospital in the future; does not automatically result in acceptance for observership. Screening Process Griffin Hospital reserves the right to screen any worker for drug abuse. Candidates may be asked to undergo drug testing. It is the policy of Griffin Hospital to do background checks on its employees. We routinely perform background checks on sub-interns and observers. The sub-intern and observer are required to pay for this background check and/or drug testing. The cost of the background check is included in the application fee. If a drug testing is mandated, additional costs will incur. Fee Effective April 1st, 2024, there will be a non-refundable fee of $900 and will be charged for each month of rotation. The fee is required (6) weeks prior to the start date of the rotation. Payment will only be due if acceptance to the program has been confirmed. Any additional months of rotation will require a non-refundable fee of $900 per month of rotation. Accepted forms of payment: U.S. Certified Bank Check U.S. Money Order U.S. Personal Check Immunization Record All applicants will be required to show proof of: COVID-19 Vaccination Record Card ( Including Booster dose ) Flu vaccine ( during flu season Oct-March ) MMR titers ( Measles, Mumps and Rubella ) Varicella titers PPD ( within 1 year if negative, chest x-ray within 3 years if positive ) Additional Rotations It is generally the policy of Griffin Hospital NOT to extend the duration of observership . Under certain circumstances, we will allow a person to extend the duration, such as: when there is an empty slot available which has not been filled with a new candidate. In the event that a slot is available due to the lack of a candidate, a candidate shall make a formal request to the Coordinator for an extension. In the event that a present observer and a new applicant compete for a slot, preference will be given to the new applicant. Evaluation Evaluation of an observership performance is based on: Teaching Attending&#8217;s feedback and written evaluation Resident feedback and written evaluation Intern&#8217;s feedback and written evaluation Any other formal or informal feedback may include: Nursing evaluation Patient feedback Chief Resident&#8217;s feedback Feedback from morning reports and lectures participation Reference Letters A candidate may request one letter of reference from the teaching attending physician on their team with whom they had a significant interaction with. It is the candidates&#8217; responsibility to obtain such letter. It is not the responsibility of the committee or the coordinator to obtain the letter for you. Parking Free parking is provided in the lower lot across from the hospital on Seymour Avenue. There is also parking at The Center for Cancer Care at Griffin Hospital on the corner of Seymour Ave and Division St. There is no parking allowed in the upper lot. This lot is strictly for patients and/or visitors of the hospital. Lodging Griffin Hospital does not make arrangements for lodging or rental of apartments . Candidates are directed to contacting previous observers; they have had good results for accommodations. Candidates are also asked to share their email address amongst the team of each rotation month. Communication between each other has been very helpful with travel and/or accommodations. Please let us know if you would NOT like your email shared. Equipment We do not provide white coats, on-call gowns, stethoscopes, tendon hammers etc. It is your responsibility to obtain these items on your own. A white lab coat or jacket is required by all observers while in the hospital. Application Title Observership Application Download Contact Information Please review all above information carefully. If you have any further questions, please contact MedEd Observership , Observership Program Coordinator. Please do not send program inquiries to the Program Directors or faculty. More From Griffin Health Griffin Hospital School of Allied Health Careers Griffin Center for Healthy Living Griffin Bariatrics Griffin Faculty Physicians Yale-Griffin Prevention Research Center Griffin Hospital Medical Education Primary Care Specialty Care Griffin Hospital Department of Medical Education | 130 Division Street | Derby, CT 06460 | (203) 732-7327 Copyright Griffin Health Services Corporation | Website Hosted and Managed by Rosemont Media