Rutgers New Jersey Medical School Admissions Education Research Patient Care Academic Departments About Us The Future Of Our Medical School Alumni Dean Johnson UME GME Faculty NJMS Intranet Administrative Offices School of Graduate Studies Office Of The Registrar Menu &times; Admissions Education Research Patient Care Academic Departments About Us The Future Of Our Medical School Alumni Dean Johnson UME GME Faculty NJMS Intranet Administrative Offices School of Graduate Studies Search &times; SEARCH All sites People Events Buildings RBHS Find A Faculty Home Education Home Office Of The Registrar Home Welcome Academic Calendar 2025-2026 2026-2027 Block Schedules First Year Fall Second Year Fall First Year Spring Second Year Spring Registration Process and Externship Procedures Third Year Third Year Curriculum Sequences Third Year Registration - Mandatory Courses Fourth Year Mandatory Clerkship Registration Fourth Year Mandatory Clerkship Add/Drop Fourth Year Elective Registration Fourth Year Elective Add/Drop Externships Course Brochures Credit Electives Elective Books 2026-2027 Elective Books 2025-2026 Visiting Students Overview ViSION program (Visiting Students: Initiating Opportunities and Networking) Transcripts, Change of Address, and Other Document Certifications Request for Degree Certification Change of Address/Contact Information Form Request for Official Transcripts and Dean’s Letters Request for Enrollment Verification Policies Graduation Requirements Convocation and Commencement Information Overview Information for Students Information for Faculty Registrar Staff Contact Us The Office the Registrar New Jersey Medical School 185 South Orange Avenue, MSB B-640 Newark, NJ 07103 Telephone: (973) 972-4640 Fax: (973) 972-6930 Visiting Students Visiting Student Enrollment Information for Academic Year 2026-2027 Visiting students enrolled in LCME accredited medical schools & VSLO Participating COCA Accredited AACOM Member Colleges: Students from institutions accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) and the Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation (COCA) interested in applying for elective rotations at New Jersey Medical School or an affiliate hospital must supply their visiting student application materials through VSLO, the Visiting Student Learning Opportunities website. Students from Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School are not required to submit an application fee after their elective is approved. Please see our institution page on VSLO for detailed application information. For more information on our visiting student electives, please contact Ms. Gina Ardito at arditoga@njms.rutgers.edu . Visiting students enrolled in Saint George's University School of Medicine and Ross University ( students from other non-LCME accredited international medical schools are not accepted): Students from Saint George's University School of Medicine and Ross University, must submit their applications in paper copy and email a pdf of the application materials to Gina Ardito at arditoga@njms.rutgers.edu . Please submit: Visiting Student Elective Application, located below Essential Functions for Admission, Matriculation and Program Completion and HIPAA Training forms, located below Copy of your driver's license or U.S. passport *( must be US citizen, no exceptions ) Copy of your BLS card (ACLS card is not acceptable) Copy of CV/Resume Letter of intent – please include a brief statement of why you would like to rotate in the NJMS elective. Official copy of your current medical school academic transcript Proof of personal health insurance (a copy of current insurance card) Proof of malpractice liability coverage (coverage must be at least $1 mil/$3 mil) $100 processing fee. This payment can be made by either check or money order made payable to NJMS. The fee will only be processed if placement in an elective can be made. Please add $30 for each additional elective. Application fees are nonrefundable once processed. AAMC Standard Immunization Form, located below. Please include all referenced records or lab reports (i.e. vaccine record, titers, or other). There are no exceptions to this requirement. If you are not immune to Hepatitis B (i.e. your Hep B Surface Antibody result is non-immune), you must include a Hep B Surface Antigen and you have 2 options: (1) receive a booster dose & recheck your immunity OR (2) complete the series & recheck your immunity. Immunity can be checked 4-6 weeks after a vaccine dose. If you have already completed two Hep B vaccine series without evidence of immunity and have been categorized as a non-responder, please provide documentation of this. Tuberculosis (TB) Screening Requirements: If you have a known history of latent TB, please complete section B of the "Tuberculosis Screening History" on the AAMC form including the dates and results of prior testing, documentation of the chest x-ray (this should be from within 6 months of home school matriculation or within 12 months of NJMS rotation) and if you have had prior treatment. Please submit a TB symptom questionnaire completed within 12 months of your NJMS clinical rotation dates. If there is no known history of a positive PPD or TB blood testing, you will need to submit evidence of TB screening within 12 months of the planned NJMS rotation. This can be in the form of the following: 2-step Tuberculin Skin Test (TST), i.e. PPD test (this would require 4 visits, 2 for administration of the skin test and 2 to have the result read) If positive, you will need to submit evidence of a negative chest x-ray and complete the TB symptom questionnaire OR negative TB blood test A TB blood test (i.e. QuantiFERON Gold or T-spot) If positive, you will need to submit a negative chest x-ray and complete the TB symptom questionnaire All visiting students must adhere to the NJMS rotation dates, which can be found on page 4 of the visiting student elective brochure posted below. Alternate date requests will not be accepted. All application information must be received at least eight weeks prior to the start of the elective rotation. NJMS reserves the right to deny an application(s) for an elective rotation if application materials are received within eight weeks of the elective(s) start date(s). To apply to our institution, please complete the paperwork noted above. Incomplete applications will not be processed. We will be unable to respond to inquiries regarding availability of electives or the status of your application; we will notify you as soon as your application is processed. Visiting students may complete up to 4 weeks of electives at NJMS. Do not directly submit application materials to academic departments. We will begin accepting applications for the fall term on March 4, 2026. We begin processing applications in April. Acceptance into an elective is based upon a complete application, including immunization compliance, and elective availability. If offered an elective, you will be required to upload satisfactory results of a criminal background check completed within one year of the start date of your rotation. This is required of ALL Non-Rutgers STUDENTS. If you are accepted into the rotation, you will be automatically registered. Should you wish to drop the course or change your elective dates, you must notify this office in writing no later than four weeks prior to the start date. The electives offered by NJMS for the 2026-2027 academic year are printed in the NJMS Visiting Student Electives Brochure, found below. Visiting Students Elective Application Standard Immunization Record Essential Functions HIPAA Form Visiting Student Electives Brochure Quick Links George F. Smith Library Centers & Institutes Make a Gift Rutgers University IT@NJMS Rutgers Health Non-Discrimination Statement Wayfinding Free Expression Affiliations University Hospital RWJBarnabas Health Veterans Health Administration Bergen New Bridge Medical Center Trinitas Regional Medical Center Contact Us Medical Science Building 185 South Orange Avenue Newark, NJ 07103 (732) 445-info (4636) njmsmarketing@njms.rutgers.edu Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback form. Copyright &copy; , Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey , All rights reserved. Contact webmaster